                            [Illustration:

                              _Vol. VI._

                               _of the_

                         Botanists Repository

                             _Comprising,
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                   With Botanical Descriptions _&c._

                             ----_in_----

                          _Latin and English,
                              after the_

                            Linnæan System,

                                  _by
                              H. Andrews
                    Botanical Painter Engraver &c._

                           Mo. Bot. Garden.
                                 1904.
                                   ]




PLATE CCCLXI.

SANSEVIERA CARNEA.

_Flesh-coloured Sanseviera._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA infera monopetala, tubo filiformi, limbo, 6-partito,
 revoluto. Stamina limbo inserta. Bacca 1-sperma.

 COROLLA beneath of one petal, with a thread-shaped tube, and
 6-parted revolute limb. Threads inserted into the limb. Berry one
 seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Sanseviera. Foliis distichis, lanceolato-ensiformibus, carinatis,
 floribus solitariis sessilibus.

 Sanseviera. With leaves two-ranked, lance-sword shaped, keeled,
 flowers solitary, sessile.

 DESCRIPTIO. Herba perennis, habitu Hemerocallidis. _Radix_
 subcarnosus, fibris longissimis subsimplicibus. _Folia_ radicalia,
 subdisticha, effusa, lanceolato-ensiformia, fere pedalia, trinervia,
 (nervo medio carinæformi) basin imbricata et profunde caniliculata,
 marginibus apices versus asperiusculis. _Scapus_ radicalis, et quasi
 lateralis, palmaris, suberectus, angulatus, superne carneus. _Flores_
 spicati, ascendentes, sessiles, alterni, carnei, intus pallidiores.
 _Bracteæ_ ovato-acuminatæ, concavæ, carneæ, flores amplectentes.
 _Corolla_ 6-partita, tubo angulato longitudine bractearum; laciniis
 revolutis sublanceolatis, tubo aliquo longioribus, supremâ paulo
 majore. _Filamenta_ 6 æqualia, alba, basi laciniarum inserta, laciniis
 aliquo brevioribus. _Antheræ_ erectæ, utrinque emarginatæ, sulphureæ.
 _Stylus_ carneus, paulo declinatus, antheris vix superans. _Stigma_
 obtusum album, obsoletissime trilobatum.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A floral leaf.

 2. The flower cut open, with one of the tips magnified.

 3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, and the summit magnified.


This new species, of Thunberg’s new genus Sanseviera, which is a branch
of the Linnæan genus Aletris; was introduced into this country from
China, by T. Evans, Esq. of Stepney; in the year 1792: but is still
very rare. Our drawing was made from a fine plant in the collection
of J. Vere, Esq. of Kensington Gore, in the month of March[A]. Mr.
Anderson, his botanic gardener, informs us, he has treated it as a
hothouse plant; but it will probably be found to succeed better in the
greenhouse, like other Chinese plants. It is propagated by parting the
roots. In habit it resembles Hemerocallis more than Sanseviera, but
agrees with the generical characters of Sanseviera zeylanica. With
Aletris fragrans it also agrees in many particulars; but with Aletris
farinosa is quite at variance.

[A] A root of it, (lately parted from the individual here figured,)
flowered at Messrs. Grimwood and Wykes’s, in February.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXII.

CROCUS BIFLORUS.

_Yellow-bottomed White Crocus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.

ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA, supera, 6-partita, subæqualis, erecto-patula, tubo
 longissimo subterraneo.

 COROLLA, above, 6-parted, nearly equal, erect-expanding, with
 a very long subterraneous tube.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Crocus, foliis angustissimis effusis floribus semper longe
 superantibus.

 Crocus, with very narrow diffused leaves, which are always much higher
 than the flowers.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ tunicis glabris cochleariformibus.
 _Folia_, tempore florendi, longissima omnium, magisque effusa.
 _Spathæ_ sæpe 2-floræ, ut in plurimis. _Flores_ vernales, albæ, magnæ;
 fundo intus sordide flavo, extus aliquo olivaceo; tubo pergracili,
 depilato; petalis 3 exterioribus, extus tincturâ flavedinis, et
 purpureo elegantissime plumoso-striatis. _Filamenta antheræque_
 erectæ, luteæ. _Stylus_ percroceus. _Stigmata_ itidem percrocea,
 antheris vix superantia. _Haworth’s Crocus inedit._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The outer sheath of the flower.

 2. The inner.

 3. The flower cut open.


This beautiful Crocus is unquestionably distinct as a species, and
has never been noticed by any systematic writer except Miller; who
has described it accurately under the name of _biflorus_, in the 8th
edition of his celebrated Dictionary. It is very hardy, flowers early
in February, and may be readily distinguished from other Crocuses
by its leaves being much longer than the flowers, at the time of
flowering. When the sun shines strong, the flowers have a just
perceptible fragrant scent; a circumstance very unusual in this genus;
all the other species, (one we call _fragrans_ excepted) having more or
less of an unpleasant smell. It seldom produces seeds in this country,
or varies in colour; but increases by the root.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXIII.

POLYGALA STIPULACEA.

_Stipuled Milkwort._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA OCTANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Eight Chives.

ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.


 CALYX 5-phyllus: foliolis duobus alæformibus, coloratis.
 Legumen obcordatura, biloculare.

 CUP 5-leaved, with two of the leaves like wings, coloured.
 Pod inverse heart-shaped, two-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Polygala. Floribus imberbibus lateralibus, caule suffruticoso, foliis
 ternis linearibus acutis. _Willd._ _Sp. pl. 892._

 Polygala. With beardless lateral flowers, a shrubby stem, and ternate,
 linear, acute leaves.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Suffrutex_, ramulis subdivaricatis,
 filiformibus, elongatis, pubescentibus. _Folia_ fasciculata, linearia,
 obsolete mucronata, 3-6 in singulo fasciculo; infimo latiore,
 breviore, stipuliforme. _Flores_ P. Heisteriæ, at minores, axillares,
 solitarii, vel subinde binati; sessiles.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The Empalement.

 2. The same magnified.

 3. The Keel magnified.

 4. One of the wings.

 5. The same magnified.

 6. The Chives.

 7. The same magnified.

 8. The Pointal magnified.


A rare Cape species recently introduced to the Hibbertian Collection,
where our drawing was taken last summer. It is a greenhouse shrub of
the more delicate kind; and is propagated, but not very readily, by
cuttings.

In the structure of the flowers this species agrees exactly with the
common Polygala Heisteria, which Linnæus originally made a distinct
genus from Polygala; but afterwards united them. In keeping them
distinct we think he did right; but wrong in uniting them. Our readers
will have an opportunity of judging for themselves in our next number,
in which will be figured a true Polygala, and another of the Heisteria
family; with proper dissections of each.

Heisteria was named by Linnæus in honour of the celebrated German
surgeon Heister.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXIV.

IRIS PAVONIA.

_The Peacock-Iris._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA 6-partita: laciniis alternis reflexis. Stigmata
 petaliformia.

 COROLLA 6-parted: with the alternate segments reflexed. The
 stigmas petal-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Iris. Imberbis, folio lineari glabro, scapo sub-unifloro.

 Iris. Beardless, with a linear smooth leaf, and a usually one-flowered
 stem.

IRIS _Pavonia_ Willd. Sp. Pl. I. 238.

  _Jacq. Coll. Sup. p. 8, Descriptione optimâ._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The outer Sheath of the Flower.

 2. The inner one.

 3 The Seed-bud, Chives and Pointal as they stand in the Flower.

 4. The Chives spread open.

 5. The Pointal.


This splendid but fugitive plant, is strikingly emblematic of the short
duration of superior beauty: its flower is but the transient object of
a day; and its whole life in Europe seldom exceeds a single year!

The Peacock-Iris, notwithstanding its attractions, is but imperfectly
understood by the Botanists and Horticulturists of this country; for
while the latter have been unsuccessful in cultivating it: some of the
former have privately considered it as a new Genus: some have referred
it to Iris, Morea, or Ferraria; others with more propriety to De la
Roche’s Genus Vieusseuxia; and the usually accurate Curtis mistook and
figured the widely-different Iris tricuspis for it.

The English Gardens have several times possessed this charming species,
but we are afraid it is at present entirely lost to them. Our figure
therefore, taken from the Hibbertian collection some time since, cannot
fail to be highly acceptable to all lovers of plants.

In root Iris Pavonia resembles other Cape Irides; but the varying
lustres of its brilliant flowers are seldom equalled; and not much
excelled by any plant we ever saw. It is a native of the Cape, flowers
early in Spring; and must be treated like the other bulbous species
from that country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXV.

SCILLA SIBERICA.

_Siberian Squill._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA 6-petala, patens, decidua. Filamenta filiformia.

 COROLLA 6 petaled, expanding, deciduous. Filaments
 thread-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Scilla, tetraphylla, scapis plurimis semiteretibus, striatis,
 bifloris, post florescentiam decumbentibus.

 Scilla, four-leaved, with many semicylindrical, scored, two-flowered
 stalks, which after flowering are decumbent.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ bulbosus, magnus pro ratione magnitudinis
 plantæ. _Folia_ in bulbis senectis, sæpius 4, latiuscula, aliquo
 striatula, parum recurvata, apice obcuneata et subinvoluta. _Scapi_
 3-5: 1-2, vel rarissime 3-flori, inæquales, semicylindrici, valde
 striati, lucidi, vix palmares, superne atro-cærulescentes. _Pedunculi_
 alterni, remoti, difformes, 1-6 lineares, basi bibracteati, erecti,
 apice nutantes, vel cernui, uniflori, atro-cærulescentes. _Bracteæ_
 difformes, parvulæ, inferne purpurascentes, superne albæ et
 membranaceæ. _Corolla_ hexapetala, nutans, vel cernua, campanulata.
 _Petala_ sublanceolata, obtusa, concavo-incurva, lætissime cærulea;
 intus pallidiora, basi albicantia, costâ utrinque saturatiore.
 _Filamenta_ 6, filiformia, compressa, alba, superne profunde cærulea,
 petalis duplo breviora. _Antheræ_ majusculæ æruginosa. _Germen_
 pallidum, subrotundum, 6-sulcatum, sulcis alternis profundioribus.
 _Stylus_ antheris superans, decumbens, basi albus, superne azureus.
 _Stigma_ obsoletissimum.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The Flower spread open, with one Chive magnified.

 2. The Pointal and Seed-bud, the Summit magnified.


This nondescript and beautiful species of the genus Scilla, is allied
to Scilla præcox of Willdenow; but appears to differ in too many
particulars, to admit of their being united. It is a native of Siberia,
increases slowly by the root, but sometimes ripens seeds in this
country. It commences flowering in the beginning of February, before
the common Scilla bifolia; but continues in beauty long after that
plant is past; and although perfectly hardy, its flowers are liable to
be injured by strong frosts, unless occasionally protected.

It thrives well in a light soil, and warm situation; but, like all
dwarf plants, appears to most advantage in a pot: and indeed, succeeds
best with the treatment usually given to alpine plants.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXVI.

GERANIUM BARBATUM. _Var. Undulatum._

_Bearded-leaved Geranium._ _Var. Waved-petalled._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, pentacoccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns,
five dry berries,


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 Geranium. Foliis pinnatis, incisuris pinnarum aristatis barbatisque,
 petalis omnibus flavicantibus, rubro-notatis undulatisque.

 Geranium. With winged leaves, the segments aristated and bearded, all
 the petals yellowish, marked with red, and undulated.

 DESCRIPTIO. Pinnæ foliorum inæqualiter incisæ, incissuris
 acuminatis, barbatisque. _Scapus_ ramosus. _Flores_ umbellati.
 _Petala_ omnia linearia, obtusa, elongata, recurvata, valde undulata,
 flavicantia. basi fere ad medium lætissime rubra. Stamina fertilia
 quinque.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The Empalement.

 2. The Chives and Pointal.

 3. The same magnified.

 4. The Pointal magnified.


This plant was sent from the Cape to the collection of George Hibbert,
Esq. at Clapham, where our drawing was taken in September; it is no
more than a variety, although a very beautiful one, of the Geranium
barbatum of this work, of which one variety has already been figured on
plate 323. It is a green-house plant, and requires the same treatment
as the other tuberous rooted species.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXVII.

ANAGALLIS GRANDIFLORA.

_Great-flowered Pimpernel._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CAPSULA 1-locularis, circumscissa. _Corolla_ rotata.
 _Stamina_ hirsuta. _Stigma_ capitatum.

 CAPSULE one-celled, cut round. _Corolla_ wheel-shaped.
 _Chives_ hairy. _Summit_ headed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 ANAGALLIS, foliis ternatis cordato-ovatis acuminatis.

 ANAGALLIS, with leaves in threes heart-egg-shaped acuminated.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ annua. _Rami_ elongati, effusi,
 procumbentes, angulati, superne simplices. _Folia_ ternatim
 verticillata, remota, elliptica, acuminata, amplexicaulia, utrinque
 3-5-lineata. _Pedunculi_ ternatim verticillati, axillares, filiformes,
 primo patuli, demum sæpe recurvi, foliis duplo longiores. _Calyx_
 4-rarius 5-phyllus, foliolis lanceolatis, acuminatis, carinatis,
 marginibus membranaceis. _Corolla_ 5-rarius 4-petala, petalis basi
 confluentibus, patulis, orbiculatis, coccineis, basi intus nigris.
 _Filamenta_ 5 hirsuta, atro-purpurascentia, petalis multo breviora.
 _Germen_ pallidum. _Stylus_ pergracilis purpureus antheras luteas
 superans. _Stigma_ simplex, capitulatum, viride.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A peduncle and calyx.

 2. The corolla spread open.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal, and summit magnified.


This new and elegant species of Anagallis, the largest and most showy
of that genus hitherto discovered, was introduced into England, we
believe, in the last year; but by whom, or from what country, we
have not yet satisfactorily ascertained. It is reported to be of
African origin, and to have come to England from the Paris garden.
Our figure was made from a plant trained up near three feet high, in
Lady De Clifford’s collection at Paddington, where it is treated as a
green-house plant. We have not yet seen it produce good seeds, although
apparently an annual plant; but it is easily increased by cuttings in
the usual way. In every thing except size, and in having more entire
petals, it very much resembles Anagallis arvensis; a plant truly
remarkable for being the only one indigenous to Britain (the Poppies
excepted) with scarlet flowers.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXVIII.

MELANTHIUM MASSONIÆFOLIUM.

_Massonia-leaved Melanthium._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Six Chives. Three Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 0. _Corolla_ infera, 6-petala, petalis staminiferis.

 NO CALYX. _Corolla_ beneath, 6-petalled, with the petals
 staminiferous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 MELANTHIUM, foliis subrotundis prostratis sulcato-striatis,
 floribus spicatis.

 MELANTHIUM, with roundish prostrate sulcato-striated leaves,
 and spiked flowers.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Folia_ duo humi appressa, subrotunda, viridia,
 acumine obsoleto recurvato, striisque sulcatis parallelis circiter
 12; subtus glabra pallidiora. _Flores_ in spica perbracteata ut in
 Eucomide. _Scapus_ clavatus teres. _Bracteæ_ ovato-acuminatæ, magnæ;
 superiores paulo minores. _Flores_ sessiles, bracteis multoties
 breviores, virides. _Corolla_ hexapetaloidea, vix aperta, petalis
 sublanceolatis, obtusis, erectis, apicem versus incurvis. _Filamenta_
 brevissima, compressa, collo corollæ imposita, basi confluentia.
 _Antheræ_ erectæ obsoletæ. _Germen_ alato-triangulare, desinens in
 stylos 3 obsoletissimos, subulatos, et fere adnatos.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A floral leaf.

 2. The corolla cut open.

 3. A back view of the same.

 4. The seed-bud and obsolete styles.


This singular plant appears to us to be a new, but somewhat anomalous
species of the Genus Melanthium; which, as it at present stands,
unquestionably contains several Genera. It is a native of the Cape,
and a Green-house plant; and prior to flowering possesses altogether
the appearance of a Massonia, and thrives very well with the treatment
of one. Our drawing of it was taken from fine plants in the Hibbertian
collection in the month of March.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXIX.

EUCOMIS PURPUREOCAULIS.

_Purple-stalked Eucomis._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA infera, 6-partita, persistens. Filamenta nectario
 adnata.

 COROLLA beneath, 6-parted, persistent. Chives conjoined to
 the base of the corolla, forming a nectary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 EUCOMIS, scapo clavato, foliis multifariis expansis
 orbiculato-spatulatis.

 EUCOMIS, with a clavated scape, leaves pointing many ways
 expanded orbicular-spatula-shaped.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ ut in affinibus. _Folia_ 5-7, multifaria,
 expansa, demum prostrata, orbiculato-spatulata, vel subinde
 multo angustiora, viridia, obsolete sulcato-lineata et lucida,
 marginibus minute cartilagineis, glabriusculis; subtus pallidiora,
 lucidiora, magisque sulcata. _Scapus_ claviformis, perbrevis,
 crassus, atro-purpureus; intra flores valde contractus, viridis,
 purpureoque punctatus. _Flores_ spicati, conferti, sessiles, sæpe
 adscendentes, unibracteati. _Bracteæ_ imæ obcuneatæ, subrecurvæ,
 submembranaceæ, et sæpe purpurascentes; sensim minores; summæ
 longiores, lineari-lanceolatæ, purpureo-marginatæ, steriles; in
 coronam foliolorum perelegantem supra flores collectæ. _Corolla_
 hexapetaloidea, petalis subæqualibus, lineari-oblongis, vix
 attenuatis, viridibus. _Filamenta_ 6, basi petalorum valde connata,
 subulata, compressa; superne incurvata. _Antheræ_ flavescentes; post
 florescentiam fuscæ, pendulæ, ad apices petalorum vix attingentes.
 _Germen_ sulcato-triangulare. _Stylus_ flexuoso-adscendens, teres, vix
 subulatus, filamentis multo brevior. _Stigma_ nullum sive inconspicuum.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. One of the lower floral leaves.

 2. The corolla cut open.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal.


We find no account of this fine plant in any publication we have
consulted: it is closely allied to Eucomis regia, but differs
sufficiently from that species in the shape of its leaves, and the
smoothness of their margins. It is a green-house plant, and was lately
introduced from the Cape by G. Hibbert, Esq. from a plant in whose
collection our drawing was taken in the month of March.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXX.

POLYGALA TERETIFOLIA.

_Cylindric-leaved Milkwort._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA OCTANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Eight Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 5-phyllus; foliolis duobus alæformibus, coloratis.
 Legumen obcordatum, biloculare.

 CUP 5-leaved; with two of the leaves like wings, coloured.
 Pod inverse heart-shaped, two-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 POLYGALA, floribus cristatis, racemis terminalibus
 paucifloris, alis calycinis ovatis acutiusculis multinerviis, caule
 fruticoso, foliis lineari-subulatis. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 882._

 POLYGALA, with cristated flowers, racemes terminal
 few-flowered, calyx-wings ovate acutish many-nerved, shrubby stem, and
 linear-awl-shaped leaves.

 DESCRIPTIO. Ramuli filiformes, patuli, canescentes. _Folia_
 sparsa, sæpe conferta, recurva, et falcata, linearia, obtusa,
 marginibus revolutis, ut in Erica; supra canescentia: subtus cana.
 _Racemi_ 2-5 flori. _Pedunculi_ pubescentes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A leaf.

 2. The under surface of the same magnified.

 3. The exterior part of the cup.

 4. One of the wing-like leaves of the cup, outside.

 5. The same inside.

 6. The chives, keel and banner spread open.

 7. The keel and its crest detached.

 8. The same magnified.

 9. The chives and banner.

 10. The same magnified.

 11. The seed-bud and pointal.

 12. The same magnified.


Our plate represents the true species of Polygala, which we promised
in our account of P. stipulacea. It is a green-house shrub, and rather
delicate; yet may, with care, be propagated by cuttings; but is at
present very scarce in this country. Its native country is the Cape.
Our drawing was taken from a plant in the Clapham collection in the
summer of 1803.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXI.

POLYGALA ALOPECUROIDES.

_Fox-tail Milkwort._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA OCTANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Eight Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 5-phyllus, foliolis duobus alæformibus, coloratis.
 Legumen obcordatum, biloculare.

 CUP 5-leaved, with two of the leaves like wings, coloured.
 Pod inverse heart-shaped, two-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 POLYGALA, floribus imberbibus, pedanculis solitariis
 axillaribus, foliis fasciculatis ovatis mucronatis margine ciliatis.
 _Willd. Sp. Pl. 890._

 P. floribus imberbibus lateralibus, foliis fasciculatis lanceolatis
 mucronatis villosis. _Thunb. Prod. 121._

 POLYGALA, with flowers beardless, peduncles solitary
 axillary, leaves fascicled egg-shaped mucronated and ciliated on the
 margin.

 P. with flowers beardless lateral, leaves fasciculated lance-shaped
 mucronated and villose.

DESCRIPTIO. _Suffrutex_ elegans, ramulis hirtis. _Folia_ valde
conferta, fasciculata, pone medium recurva, 5-6 in singulo fasciculo,
infimo majore, latiore, stipuliforme; omnia lineari-lanceolata,
mucronata, hirta, ad margines valde ciliata. _Flores_ axillares,
sessiles, solitarii, minuti, purpurascentes, serrulati.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement magnified.

 2. The keel magnified.

 3. One of the wings magnified.

 4. The chives and pointal magnified.

 5. The pointal detached and magnified.


This is the Polygala of the Heisteria family, which we last month
engaged to lay before our readers. They will now have an opportunity,
from our copious dissections of the flowers, of judging of the great
and numerous generical differences which exist between a genuine
Polygala and the discarded genus Heisteria. All the Heisteriæ we have
yet had an opportunity of examining are heptandrous; all the true
Polygalæ octandrous: but these are the least of their distinctions.

The Fox-tail Milkwort is a very elegant shrub of the green-house kind,
and is often in flower. It was recently raised from Cape seeds in the
Clapham collection, and is at present, we believe, in no other: thrives
well in a mixture of bog earth and loam, and is capable of propagation
by cuttings.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXII.

MIMOSA PURPUREA.

_Soldier Bush Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various Dispositions. Upon one Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 HERMAPH. Calyx 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 5 seu plura.
 Pist. 1. Legumen.

 Mascul. Calyx 5-dentatus, Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 5-1O, plura.

 HERMAPH. Cup 5-toothed. Blos. 5-cleft. Chives 5 or more.
 Pointal one. A Pod.

 Male. Cup 5-toothed. Blos. 5-cleft. Chives, 5, 10, or more.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 MIMOSA, inermis, foliis conjugatis pinnatis, foliolis intimis
 minoribus. _Linn. Sp. Pl. ed. 3. p. 1500._

 M. foliis tergeminis. _Plum. Ic. t. 10. f. 2._

 MIMOSA, unarmed, with leaves conjugate prinnate, and the
 inner leaflets smaller.

 M. with leaves three times twinned.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A single flower.

 2. The cup.

 3. The blossom.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal.


The Mimosa purpurea is a native of the West Indies, and is there known
by the expressive appellation of Soldier Bush; from the plants being
sometimes almost covered with their bright red-purple flowers, in which
state it is said they are visible, and even cognizable, on the sides of
hills, at the distance of a mile.

The Soldier Bush in this country must be treated as a tender hot-house
shrub, and kept constantly in the tan-bed, planted in rich earth. It is
a plant of handsome growth and foliage; but its charming flowers are
so very rare, that we do not recollect seeing any of them except those
which are here represented, from a plant which flowered in March last,
in the collection of Mrs. Wright at Bayswater. It is propagated by
cuttings in the usual way.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXIII.

PÆONIA SUFFRUTICOSA.

_Shrubby Pæony._


CLASS XIII. ORDER V.

_POLYANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Styli 0. Capsulæ polyspermæ.

 CUP 5-leaved. Petals 5. Pointal none. Capsules many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 PÆONIA, foliolis subtus glaucis et villosis, capsulis
 sericeis, caule suffruticoso.

 PÆONY, with leaflets glaucous and villose beneath, capsules
 silky, and shrubby stem.

PÆONIA officinalis. _Thunb. Fl. Jap. 230._--_Loureir. Fl.
Cochin. 1. 343._

 DESCRIPTIO. Suffrutex 3-pedalis et ultra, ramosus. _Rami_
 erectiusculi, cortice subfusco; ramulis erectis lævibus, apicem
 versus viridibus, pauloque pubescentibus. _Folia_ alterna, bipinnata,
 pedalia et ultra, horizontalia; superiora adscendentia; petiolis
 amplexicaulibus, canaliculatis, villis perpaucis sæpe instructis,
 canaliculâ, petiolorum semper lætissime roseâ; pinnæ 2-4, petiolatæ;
 pinnulæ sæpe 3, sessiles, infimæ oppositæ, tertia terminalis; omnes
 basi oblique cuneatæ, superne irregulariter inciso-dentatæ; supra
 virides, venosæ, nudæ, subtus glaucæ, nervosæ, villosæ. _Flores_
 speciosissimi ut in affinibus, sed in nostris exemplaribus pleni,
 rosei. _Capsulæ_ sericeo-pubescentes.


The Pæonia suffruticosa is perhaps the most showy and desirable
species, in this short but magnificent genus of plants. To the striking
peculiarity of a shrubby stem, it unites the advantages of superior
size; a profusion of very large flowers; and a facility of culture
which ensures an annual succession of them: no wonder, therefore, that
it is assiduously sought after by all who admire the beauties of Flora.

The shrubby Pæony was introduced into Britain in the year 1794, from
China; where, as well as in Japan, many varieties of it are said to be
common in almost every garden. We conceive it to be extremely distinct
as a species, from the P. officinalis of all authors except Thunberg
and Loureiro: yet Professor Willdenow has not enumerated it in his
edition of Species Plantarum. Although introduced so long since, it
is still rare; and must be treated as a very hardy green-house plant:
indeed it succeeds best when planted in the earth and protected by
a glass case; is propagated by slipping the roots, and by cuttings.
All the plants hitherto received from China have double flowers; and
among them there are two varieties; the rosy one here figured, from
the Clapham collection; and another with purplish petals, the bases of
which are of a still deeper colour. Flowers in April, making a very
fine appearance; but is nearly scentless.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXIV.

XERANTHEMUM PROLIFERUM.

_Proliferous Eternal Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
 imbricatus, radiatus; radio colorato.

 RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly. Empalement
 tiled, rayed; the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 XERANTHEMUM, caule fruticoso prolifero, floribus sessilibus,
 foliis granulato-subrotundis imbricatis obsoletis.

 XERANTHEMUM, with a shrubby proliferous stem, sessile
 flowers, leaves grain-shaped roundish tiled and obsolete.

XERANTHEMUM proliferum. _Mant. Pl. 467._--_Gmel. Syst. Nat. 2.
1218._

 DESCRIPTIO. Frutex erectus, proliferus, tripedalis et
 ultra. _Rami_ teretes, lanâ densâ, niveâ undique vestiti; et
 ramulis numerosissimis, incipientibus, brevissimis, sæpe quasi
 reflexo-imbricatis, instructi. _Flores_ solitarii magni, squamis
 calycinis lanceolatis, lætissimæ et profundissime rubicundis, basin
 versus valde lanatis, superioribus sensim majoribus.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. An hermaphrodite floret magnified.

 2. The chives, pointal and seed-bud magnified.

 3. One of the scales of the empalement.

 4. The receptacle.


Few genera of plants attract attention so universally and deservedly,
as those of the genus Xeranthemum. All the species it contains are at
once the favourites of the Botanist, the Gardener, and the Florist.
The former, with pleasing satisfaction, contemplates their polished
beauties still undiminished in his herbarium; while the latter find
them (if sufficiently guarded from humidity) of easy management and
ready growth. They bloom annually, and their durable and highly
finished empalements are gathered and used in decorating many a
mantle-piece; long, very long after they have ceased to live: whence
the name of Eternal Flower. Many species of Gnaphalium possess a
similar durability; and we have seen dried bouquets of both united,
which were extremely beautiful.

The proliferous Eternal Flower is shrubby, commences flowering in May,
lasts a long time in bloom, and in point of singularity and showiness
yields to few of its congeners. It is a Cape plant: succeeds with the
treatment of several species figured before by us; and is propagated by
cuttings: was introduced some years since. Our figure was made from the
Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXV.

XERANTHEMUM BRACTEATUM.

_Waved-leaved Eternal Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
 imbricatus, radiatus; radio colorato.

 RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly. Empalement
 tiled, rayed; the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 XERANTHEMUM, foliis alternis amplexicaulibus
 longo-lanceolatis undulatis, caulibusque erectis pubescentibus;
 receptaculis nudis, radice annua.

 XERANTHEMUM, with alternate stem-clasping long-spear-shaped
 waved pubescent leaves, pubescent erect stems, naked receptacles, and
 annual root.

 XERANTHEMUM bracteatum. _Vent. Jard. de la Malmaison, tab. 2._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A hermaphrodite floret magnified.

 2. The chives, pointal and seed-bud magnified.

 3. The pointal and seed-bud of a female floret magnified.

 4. The receptacle.


Xeranthemum bracteatum has the appearance of proving as hardy an
annual as a China Aster or French Marygold; and if so, will prove a
considerable acquisition to our open borders; as it ripens its seeds
well, and they vegetate readily.

In being annual, it recedes in its nature from all the species of the
genus we are acquainted with, except X. annuum of Linnæus; which,
however, we think, with Jussieu, of a perfectly distinct genus; on
account of its squamous receptacle; and its variety (inapertum) a
distinct species: the structure of the receptacle in the extensive
class Syngenesia being of great consequence in the formation and
distribution of genera.

The seedlings of the waved-leaved Eternal Flower are best raised early,
like China Asters, on a gentle hot-bed, and, when large enough, should
be transplanted out in showery weather, where they are intended to
remain: they will become erect and bushy, attain the height of three
feet or upwards, and produce their polished, golden-coloured flowers in
autumn, in profusion. Possessing no recent specimens in bloom, we have
omitted a technical description. Our drawing was made last summer, from
fine living plants at Mr. Colvill’s, Nurseryman, in the King’s Road;
who raised it in the year 1799 from Port Jackson seeds sent him by
Colonel Paterson.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXVI.

NEOTTIA MINOR.

_The Lesser Neottia._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 SPATHÆ vagæ. Spadix simplex. Corolla petala 5 æqualia erecta.
 Nectarium monophyllum indivisum acuminatum.

 SHEATHS scattered. Fruit-stalk simple. Corolla 5 petals of
 equal length erect. Nectary one-leafed undivided sharp-pointed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 NEOTTIA, foliis ellipticis acuminatis quintuplinerviis.

 NEOTTIA, with elliptic sharp-pointed leaves, with five nerves
 meeting above the base.

 NEOTTIA minor, foliis planis, spathis virescentibus. _Jac.
 Ic. 3. 16. t. 601._--SATYRIUM elatum. _Gmel. Syst. Nat. 2.
 56._--SERAPIAS Neottia. _Gmel. Syst. Nat. 2. 59. monente
 Dryandro, in Linn. Tr. 2. 215._

 DESCRIPTIO. _Folia_ elliptica, acuminata, quintuplinervia,
 nervo medio subtus cæteris multo majore, viridia, infra pallidiora.
 _Caulis_ tereti-compressus, pubescens 1-3-pedalis, foliis alternis
 spathaceis, remotis, instructus. _Flores_ siccos exceptos non
 possideo. H.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A blossom, seed-bud and sheath.

 2. The same magnified without the sheath, the cover of the tips
 elevated.

 3. A flower without the honey-cup.

 4. The chives and pointal as they appear detached.

 5. The pointal magnified.


What the Neottia minor wants in splendour and beauty, is
counterbalanced by the interesting structure of its flowers; which
however is not peculiar to it; but frequent in the fine order to which
it belongs: the Orchideæ.

Until Jacquin established it as a distinct genus, it was considered as
a species of, and retained a place in the genus Serapias, as well as
the more showy N. speciosa of our third plate.

The Lesser Neottia is a native of the West Indies; is a very tender
hot-house plant, but grows freely in rich earth; either in or out of
the tan-bed; rises to the height of about three feet, and flowers in
the month of March: is propagated by parting its roots; and although
at present rare, was introduced to us before N. speciosa, in the year
1790, by Mr. John Fairbairn, gardener to the Worshipful Company of
Apothecaries at Chelsea. Our drawing was taken at Lady De Clifford’s
collection at Paddington.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXVII.

ALLIUM CHAMÆ-MOLY.

_The Dwarf Moly._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA 6-partita, patens. Spatha multiflora. Umbella
 congesta. Capsula supera.

 COROLLA 6-parted, expanding. Sheath many-flowered. Umbel
 crowded. Capsule above.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 ALLIUM, scapo nudo subnullo, capsulis cernuis, foliis planis
 ciliatis.

 ALLIUM, with a naked very short stalk, drooping capsules, and
 flat ciliated leaves.

ALLIUM Chamæ-Moly. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 2. 83._--_Cavan. Ic. 3. p.
4. t. 207. f. 1.?_

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ bulbus parvulus. _Folia_ circiter
 4, cruciatim disticha, expansa, linearia, subulata, basin versus
 parum canaliculata, et subcarinata; hirta, præcipue ad margines,
 unde ciliata. _Flores_ umbellati subsessiles. _Scapus_ brevissimus,
 reconditus, nudus. _Spatha_ monophylla 3-8-flora, membranacea,
 3-cuspidata. _Pedunculi_ perbreves, teretes, superne incrassati,
 post florescentiam cernui. _Petala_ 6, lanceolato-linearia, obtusa,
 alba, costâ utrinque virescente. _Filamenta_ 6, tenuissima,
 alba, petalis duplo breviora. _Antheræ_ luteæ. _Germen_ superum,
 turbinatum, 6-sulcatum superne umbilicatum. _Stylus_ albus longitudine
 filamentorum, sed robustior, apice furcatus. _Stigmata_ fere nulla.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The sheath.

 2. A flower spread open, magnified.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal.

 4. The same magnified.


Although now an old inhabitant of the British gardens, Allium
Chamæ-Moly has ever been considered as a rare and interesting one; and
is at present extremely scarce. It has several times been entirely lost
to us, and again introduced from the south of Europe; where it occurs
spontaneously.

In the Hortus Kewensis of Mr. Aiton, it is marked as a hardy species:
perhaps inadvertently: because we never knew it survive a single winter
in the open ground near London: notwithstanding our having repeatedly
tried it, in situations by no means unfavourable: hence, possibly, its
present rarity.

It is properly a hardy green-house plant: requires a light soil, and
the treatment of an Ixia: increases both by offsets from the root, and
by seeds: and flowers annually in the months of January and February.
The leaves die down in April or May. In the structure of the flowers,
but not the spathe, it agrees with Allium gracile of this work,
which is not the gracile of the Hortus Kewensis. The genus Allium is
an extensive one; but the present is the least species in it, and
possesses the shortest stalk. Cavanilles describes and figures the
style as subulate and entire; but in our plant that part is forked: and
the spathe in his plant differs much from ours.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXVIII.

GERANIUM FISSIFOLIUM.

_Cloven-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, pentacoccus.

 ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns,
 five dry berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 GERANIUM, radice tuberosa, pinnulis foliorum inæqualiter
 fissis, scapis radicalibus simplicibus numerosis.

 GERANIUM, with a tuberous root, the little wings of the
 leaves unequally cloven, and flower-stalks radical simple and numerous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The chives spread open.

 3. The pointal and seed-bud.

 4. The same magnified.


This charming species of the tuberous-rooted family of Geranium adds
one more to the considerable number in that branch of the genus, which
we have already had the satisfaction of laying before our subscribers:
nor is it the last we hope to have it in our power to treat them with;
for we still possess drawings of two or three more. As a species, it
is extremely distinct; and as a beauty, rivalled by very few of its
affinities we are acquainted with. It does not appear to have been
noticed by any author within our knowledge; flowers at the same time
as Geranium barbatum, requires the same treatment, and belongs to
L’Hertier’s genus Erodium.

Our drawing was taken from the Clapham collection some time since; but
we cannot at present procure any specimen of it: which prevents us from
describing it in a technical manner.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXIX.

RHODODENDRON PONTICUM, _var. deciduum_.

_Deciduous Purple Rhododendron._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 5-partitus. Corolla rotato-infundibuliformis. Stamina
 declinata. Capsula 5-locularis.

 EMPALEMENT of 5 divisions. Blossom wheel-funnel-shaped.
 Chives declined. Capsule 5-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 RHODODENDRON, foliis lanceolatis deciduis, laciniis corollæ
 valde undulatis.

 RHODODENDRON, with lanced deciduous leaves, and segments of
 the corolla very much waved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement and peduncle.

 2. The same, with the chives and pointal.

 3. A chive detached, the tip magnified.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal.


The figure which accompanies this description represents a beautiful
plant, which is probably an hybrid one; generated between some Azalea
and the pontic Rhododendron. It is reported to have been raised some
time since in the Nursery at Mile-end, from seeds which were grown in
this country. In appearance, and in the structure of the leaves, it
resembles its supposed mother the Rhododendron ponticum; but in their
deciduous nature, and in some parts of the inflorescence; and likewise
in other particulars; it betrays a considerable similitude to the
American Azaleæ.

The pontic Rhododendron is a very sportive species; varies much in the
formation and colour of its corolla; and we cultivate a strong variety
of it with the flowers of R. maximum. The present variety has not
any of its undulated flowers spotted with yellow, no more than that
which is figured by Pallas in Flora Rossica: yet the spotting of the
three superior segments of the corolla is pretty constant in most of
the varieties which we have examined; and is even present, although
faintly, in R. maximum. Our figure was taken at Whitley and Brames’s in
the month of May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXX.

ACHYRANTHES PORRIGENS.

_Divaricating Achyranthes._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 FLORES incompleti, inferi. Calyx 5-phyllus. Corolla 0. Stigma
 2-fidum. Semina solitaria.

 FLOWERS incomplete, beneath. Empalement 5-leaved. Corolla
 none. Summit 2-cleft. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 ACHYRANTHES, foliis oppositis, lanceolatis, spicis ovatis,
 acutis. _Jacq. Hort. Schœnb. 3. 349. t. 350._

 ACHYRANTHES, with leaves opposite, spear-shaped, and
 egg-shaped sharp-pointed spikes.

 DESCRIPTIO. Suffrutex ramulis distantibus, filiformibus,
 canescentibus. _Folia_ opposita, elliptico-ovata, breviter petiolata,
 obsolete venosa, supra pallide viridia lente pubescentia; subtus
 pallidiora magisque pubescentia. _Flores_ dichotome-paniculati,
 divaricati, capitulis ovalibus, persistentibus, ante et post
 exsiccationem læte purpureis pulchellisque, ut in Gomphrenâ perenni.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A flower complete.

 2. The empalement magnified.

 3. The blossom magnified.

 4. The same cut open.

 5. The seed-bud and pointal.


Achyranthes porrigens was introduced into this country from Paris, in
the year 1802, by Mr. Woodford of Vauxhall; but its native country we
have not ascertained. Our figure was taken from a fine plant in the
collection of J. Vere, esq. at Kensington Gore; where it is considered
and treated as a hot-house plant of the more hardy kind; and rises to
the height of 2 or 3 feet. Thrives well in rich earth, and flowers
freely in spring, making an elegant but not showy appearance. Its
flowers resemble those of Gomphrena perennis, and like them preserve
their colours after death, if gathered before they are fully blown; and
are capable of becoming both a novel and a graceful addition to our
dried bouquets. Is propagated by cuttings, and promises fair to ripen
seeds; but is at present extremely rare.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXI.

SARRACENIA FLAVA.

_Yellow Side-saddle Flower._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CAPSULA 5-locularis. Stigma clypeatum. Calyx exterior
 3-phyllus, superior 5-phyllus.

 CAPSULE 5-celled. Stigma shield-shaped. Calyx outer 3-leaved,
 upper 5-leaved.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 SARRACENIA, foliis erectis tubulatis, valva collo contracta,
 apice plana erecta.

 SARRACENIA, with erect leaves, the valve contracted in the
 neck, with its point flat and erect.

SARRACENIA flava, _Walt. Fl. Carol. 153._--_Aiton Hort. Kew.
2. 225._--_Willd. Sp. Pl. tom. 2. 1150._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A back view of the flower.

 2. A flower deprived of its superior calyx leaves, showing the
 situation and structure of the stamina and style.


Few of the productions of Flora exhibit such extraordinary appearances
as those of the small but interesting genus Sarracenia: whether we
contemplate their tubulose, water-holding, lidded leaves; or the
strange conformation of their flowers; but more especially their
enormous shield-shaped stigmata.

Walter enumerates four species of Sarracenia in his Flora Caroliniana,
all perennial-rooted; and all at this time existing in the London
gardens; but they are rare.

The Side-saddle Flowers are rather difficult of cultivation, and
succeed best when treated as green-house bog plants; and when
plentifully supplied with water. They are propagated by dividing their
roots in spring. The specimen from which our figure was taken, was
obligingly sent us by the honourable Mr. Irby of Farnham Royal, Bucks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXII.

LIPARIA VILLOSA.

_Concave-leaved Liparia._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYCIS lacinia infima elongata. Alæ inferius bilobæ.

 THE lower segment of the empalement elongated. The wings
 two-lobed on the lower margin.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 LIPARIA, floribus fasciculatis, foliis subrotundis concavis,
 extus tomentosis, intus villosis nudisque.

 LIPARIA, with fasciculated flowers, leaves roundish concave,
 downy outwardly, and villose or naked within.

 LIPARIA villosa α. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 1117._ excluso synonymo
 Thunbergii; quod ad varietatem β. potius pertinet.

 LIPARIA vestita, floribus capitatis, foliis ovatis concavis
 subtus lanatis. _Thunb. Prod. 124. et etiam Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 1115._

 GENISTA africana tomentosa, folio cochleariformi, flore
 luteo. _Seba Thes._ 1. _p. 38. tab. 24. f. 1._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The banner.

 3. One of the wings.

 4. The keel.

 5. The chives and pointal.

 6. The seed-bud.


The Liparia villosa is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and rises
with a shrubby, but not much branched stem, to the height of two or
three feet. The silvery wool which clothes the younger branches and
leaves of the plant, gives it a very handsome appearance; yet by age it
sometimes acquires a somewhat rusty tint. The leaves are nearly round,
and assume, particularly when dried, a deep concave form, and very much
resemble in shape, small bivalve shells; a circumstance noticed long
since by the great naturalist Seba, as will appear on consulting the
synonyms above given. The variety β. of Willdenow has much narrower,
and not concave leaves; and is a very distinct species.

The concave-leaved Liparia is propagated, but not readily, by cuttings;
prefers the treatment of a green-house plant, a light, but good soil;
and, like most woolly plants, is very liable to be destroyed by damps.
Our figure was taken in May last at George Hibbert’s, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXIII.

PITTOSPORUM UNDULATUM.

_Waved-leaved Pittosporum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CAPSULA 2-5-locularis, 5-valvis. Semina tecta pulpa. Petala
 conniventia in tubum.

 CAPSULE 2-5-celled, 5-valved. Seeds covered with pulp. Petals
 converging into a tube.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 PITTOSPORUM, foliis lanceolatis undulatis acutis.

 PITTOSPORUM, with lance-shaped, waved sharp-pointed leaves.

 DESCRIPTIO. Frutex erectus, ramosus. _Ramuli_ fusci,
 cicatricibus foliorum asperi. _Folia_ breviter petiolata, lanceolata,
 vel elliptico-lanceolata, acuta, undulata, rigida, lucida, viridia,
 et reticulatim venosa; subtus pallidiora. _Flores_ terminales,
 racemosi, albicantes, pedunculis inæqualibus, rufescentibus, obsolete
 bracteatis. _Calyx_ 5-fidus, deciduus, laciniis acutis, recurvis.
 _Corolla_, petala 5, lineari-lanceolata, obtusa, revoluta, inferne
 in tubum conniventia. _Stamina_, filamenta 5, receptaculo inserta,
 stricta, subulata, subcompressa, altitudine styli; antheræ erectæ,
 luteæ. _Stylus_ albidus, petalis brevior. Stigma obtusum.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. One of the petals.

 3. The chives and pointal, with one tip magnified.

 4. The pointal and seed-bud magnified.


The Pittosporum undulatum is a new plant, introduced into this country
in the year 1793 from New Holland, where it is a native. It rises with
a shrubby stem, which is branched above, to the height of several feet.
Its branches are adorned with a fine undulated foliage that is rigid
to the touch; and are terminated, in the month of May, with bunches of
whitish flowers.

Is as yet a very rare species, and is raised from imported seeds; and
likewise by cuttings. Requires, and thrives well with, the common
treatment of a green-house or conservatory plant; and deserves a place
in every extensive collection. Our drawing was made from a specimen in
the Nursery of Messrs. Colvil, in the King’s Road.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXIV.

XERANTHEMUM VARIEGATUM.

_Variegated Eternal Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
 imbricatus, radiatus; radio colorato.

 RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly. Empalement
 tiled, rayed: the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 XERANTHEMUM, floribus solitariis nutantibus, squamis
 calycinis obtusis maculatis.

 XERANTHEMUM, with solitary nodding flowers, and the scales of
 the empalement obtuse and spotted.

 XERANTHEMUM variegatum. _Syst. Veg. 614._--_Syst. Veg.
 Litchf. ed. 2. p. 614._--_Reich. Syst. Pl. pars 3. 766._

 XERANTHEMUM africanum Gnaphalii foliis tomentosis, foliis et
 squamorum summitatibus ferrugineis. _Raii Suppl. 181._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. An hermaphrodite floret magnified.

 2. The chives, pointal, and seed-bud magnified.

 3. One of the scales of the empalement.

 4. The receptacle.


The Xeranthemum variegatum is a small shrub, and seldom attains the
height of two feet. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and
was lately introduced from that country to the collection of George
Hibbert, esq. where our drawing was taken in the month of May. It
requires the same treatment as the other species of the genus, and is
propagated in the same manner. The leaves are linear-lanced, embrace
the stem alternately, and when old are often reflexed in an imbricated
manner: they are clothed, as well as the stems, with wool; and resemble
fine woollen cloth to the touch, and often have their edges and points
of a purplish rusty colour. The bracteated peduncles are from one to
three in number, at the end of each branch. The young flowers are more
highly coloured than the old ones, which sometimes assume a nodding
attitude: when aged they bleach almost white, except the points of the
calycine scales, which always retain a purplish blotch.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXV.

CAMPANULA LACINIATA.

_Ragwort-leaved Bell Flower._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA campanulata, fundo clauso valvis staminiferis. Stigma
 3-fidum. Capsula infera, poris lateralibus dehiscens.

 COROLLA bell-shaped with the mouth closed by staminiferous
 valves. Summit 3-cleft. Capsule beneath, gaping with lateral pores.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 CAMPANULA, capsulis obtectis pedunculatis, foliis serratis;
 radicalibus lyratis; caulinis lanceolatis.

 BELL FLOWER, with pedunculated covered capsules, and serrated
 leaves; the root ones lyrated; the stem ones spear-shaped.

 CAMPANULA laciniata. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 911._

 CAMPANULA Græca, saxatilis, Jacobeæ foliis. _Tourn. Voyage 1.
 201._ cum icone.--_Coroll. Inst. Rei Herb. 3._

 DESCRIPTIO. Herba undique villosa. _Radix_ biennis. _Folia_
 radicalia lyrato-pinnatifida, pinnulis incisis; caulina alterna,
 sublanceolata, inciso-serrata. _Pedunculi_ bracteis subovatis dentatis
 instructi. _Flores_ numerosi cærulei.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The blossom laid open.

 3. The seed-bud, chives and pointal.

 4. A chive magnified.

 5. The seed-bud and pointal, the summit magnified.


The Campanula laciniata, although introduced into the British gardens
so long since as the year 1790, is still a very scarce species: this is
not owing to a want of beauty, but to its having a biennial root, and
not perfecting its seeds well, except in favourable situations. It was
originally discovered by the celebrated French traveller and botanist
Tournefort, about a century since, on a remarkable rock in the Island
of Sikino in Greece; where he appears to have been highly delighted
with its beauty and appearance, and says it is “_the fairest Campanula
in all Greece_[B].” However applicable this encomium may have been
in those days, it ceases to be so now; for, without detracting from
the fairness and beauty of the present plant, we have in cultivation
another Grecian Campanula, still more fair and beautiful, and much more
rare, which we hope soon to have the pleasure of presenting to our
subscribers.

The Ragwort-leaved Campanula is usually treated as an alpine plant,
and wintered in a frame: it is increased by seeds, and is impatient of
superfluous moisture.

[B] Tournefort’s Voyage, vol. i. page 201.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXVI.

ANTHERICUM PUGIONIFORME.

_Dagger-leaved Anthericum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX patens aut connivens. Stamina filamentis filiformibus
 hirsutis. Stigma 1. Semina angulata. _Juss. Gen. Pl. 52._

 EMPALEMENT expanding or converging. Chives thread-shaped
 hairy. Summit 1. Seeds angulated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 ANTHERICUM, foliis carnosis linearibus acuminatis
 canaliculatis, scapo foliis duplo longiore.

 ANTHERICUM, with fleshy linear acuminated channelled leaves,
 with a stalk twice their length.

 ANTHERICUM pugioniforme. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 2. 144._

 ANTHERICUM filamentis barbatis acaule, radice subrotunda
 perenni, foliis crasso-subulatis antice sulcatis apice teretibus
 pulposis erectis. _Jacq. Ic. rar. 2. t. 405._

 PETALA sex, oblonga, obtusa, plana, patentissima, lutea, cum
 fascia longitudinali media utrinque viridi. Filamenta subulata patula,
 petalis breviora, flavescentia, circa medium omnia ex viridi-flavo
 dense barbata. Antheræ oblongæ, flavæ. Germen ovatum, superum. Stylus
 filiformis, erectus, longitudine staminum. Stigma obtusum. _Jacq.
 Collect. Supp. 83._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The seed-bud, chives and pointal.

 2. A chive magnified.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal.


A native of the Cape of Good Hope, from whence it was sent some time
since to the collection of G. Hibbert, esq. Clapham Common; where
our figure was taken last autumn. It is rather more singular in
its appearance, than beautiful; but is at present extremely rare,
and deserves a place in all collections; prefers the treatment of
a green-house succulent plant, and requires much air; but must be
carefully defended from superfluous humidity; particularly when not in
a state of active growth; and is best kept constantly in the house. Is
propagated by parting its roots, but not very readily: and requires a
light, dry soil.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXVII.

XERANTHEMUM RIGIDUM.

_Rigid-leaved Eternal Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
 imbricatus, radiatus; radio colorato.

 RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly. Empalement
 tiled, rayed; the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 XERANTHEMUM, floribus parvis paniculatis; foliis villosis
 lineari-lanceolatis acuminatis viridibus.

 XERANTHEMUM, with small paniculated flowers; and hairy
 linear-lanced sharp-pointed green leaves.

 DESCRIPTIO. Suffrutex, ramulis teretibus, subflexuosis,
 villosis. _Folia_, superiora remotiora, alterna, amplexicaulia,
 lineari-lanceolata, acuminata, canaliculata, rigida, villosa, viridia,
 superne patula. _Flores_ paniculati, terminales, parvi in hoc genere,
 et inconspicui. _Pedunculi_ lanuginoso-villosi, bracteati. _Calyces_
 argentei. _Corollulæ_ flavicantes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A scale of the empalement.

 2. One of the hermaphrodite florets magnified.

 3. The chives and pointal.

 4. The receptacle.


The plant here delineated is by no means a conspicuous one;
nevertheless, as it is a genuine member of a favourite genus, and at
the same time a new species, and almost the last of its fine family
we shall be able to present to our readers, it cannot fail to be
acceptable to them.

The present species is a weak shrubby plant, flowers freely, and
succeeds with the treatment of the other eternal flowers, and is
propagated in the same manner: and was lately raised from Cape seeds at
our never-failing source of rare plants, the choice collection of G.
Hibbert, esq. where the figure here given was made in May last.

It is very closely allied to X. argenteum of our 327th plate, which is
the X. paniculatum of Thunberg and the younger Linnæus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXVIII.

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM INCLAUDENS.

_Unclosing-flowered Fig-Marygold._


CLASS XII. ORDER IV.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 PETALA valde numerosa, linearia, basi cohærentia.

 PETALS very numerous, linear, cohering at the base.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 MESEMBRYANTHEMUM, foliis triquetris lævibus perviridibus,
 carinâ gibbosâ, corollis inclandentibus, petalis interioribus valde
 abbreviatis imbricatisque.

 FIG-MARYGOLD, with triquetrous smooth deep green leaves,
 with a gibbous keel, unclosing flowers, and interior petals extremely
 abbreviated and imbricated.

 DESCRIPTIO. M. mutabili nobis affinis, sed species valde
 distincta: differt in his, foliis lævioribus, et longe viridioribus,
 minusque mucronatis, marginibus sæpius plus minusve purpureis:
 floribus speciosis semper apertis; nec inconspicuis, nocteque clausis;
 saturatissime et vivacissime rubicundis, petalis cuneato-linearibus,
 latis in hoc genere, apicibus erosis; interioribus (petalis) maxime
 abbreviatis, imbricatisque quasi in stellam. _Calyx_ subanceps,
 5-fidus, membranis rubro punctatis. _Filamenta_ recondita, brevissima
 omnium (vix linearia), alba, basi purpurea. _Antheræ_ albidæ, circiter
 longitudinem filamentorum. _Styli_ 5, erecti, pergrossi, virides,
 altitudine antherarum. Capsulam non vidi. _H._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement, seed-bud, chives and pointals.

 2. The same cut perpendicularly, to show the insertion of the chives
 and pointal.


Our figure represents a perfectly new and nondescript, and at the same
time very ornamental species of Mesembryanthemum: each flower possesses
the valuable property of lasting about ten days in beauty, and never
closes after being once expanded: a circumstance of exceeding rare
occurrence in this very extensive genus; no fewer than 214 distinct
species of which we have now a knowledge of[C].

M. inclaudens rises with a branched, shrubby stem, to the height of 10
or 12 inches, and is cultivated in the same manner, and propagated with
the same facility, that is common and well known in this tribe: they
are all very hardy green-house plants; require in winter as much air
as possible, if frost is but avoided; strike freely from cuttings; are
great lovers of hot, sunny and sheltered situations, when out for the
summer; and are better not watered over their heads, but at the roots
only.

The present species was raised from Cape seeds last season, in the
collection of G. Hibbert, esq. where our drawing was made in July.
Mr. Ross, Nurseryman at Stoke Newington, has also raised it from Cape
seeds, and flowered it in July; and he likewise very fortunately
flowered at the same time several fine specimens of M. rostratum; the
fructifications of which have not been produced before in Europe, that
we know of, although the plant has been common in the English gardens
ever since the year 1732, and is one of the very few which Dillenius
thought proper to figure without flowers, in his celebrated Hortus
Elthamensis.

[C] 211 are described in my Miscellanea Naturalia, lately published.
_H._

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLXXXIX.

DOMBEYA ERYTHROXYLON.

_Saint Helena Red-wood._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VII.

_MONADELPHIA DODECANDRIA._ Threads united. Twelve Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX duplex, exterior 3-phyllus deciduus. Corolla 5-petala.
 Stamina 10-20, quorum 5 sterilia. Stylus 5-fidus. Capsulæ 5, coalitæ
 uniloculares, 1. s. polyspermæ.

 EMPALEMENT double, outer 3-leaved deciduous. Corolla
 5-petalled. Chives 10 to 20, of which 5 are sterile. Style 5-cleft.
 Capsules 5, conjoined one-celled, 1-or many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 DOMBEYA, foliis ovatis acuminatis cordatis, subtus tomentosis
 reticulatis, pedunculis subtrifloris, floribus pentandris.

 DOMBEYA, with ovate acuminated heart-shaped leaves, downy
 and reticulated beneath, peduncles about 3-flowered, and pentandrous
 flowers.


 DOMBEYA Erythroxylon. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 725._

 PENTAPETES Erythroxylon, foliis cordatis subcrenatis subtus
 tomentosis rugoso-reticulatis, floribus subumbellatis decandris. _Ait.
 Hort. Kew. 2. 438._

 ALCÆA arborea, populi nigræ foliis, prona parte albicantibus,
 flore amplissimo rubicundo. _Pluk. Mant. 6. t. 333. f. 1._

 DESCRIPTIO. Frutex dumosus; ramulis, petiolis teretibus,
 paginis inferioribus foliorum, pedunculis calycibusque
 tomentoso-canis, et ferrugineo dense punctulatis. _Folia_ alterna,
 petiolata, cordata, subintegra, supra perviridia, utraque
 venosa, subtus obsolete reticulata. _Flores_ malvacei, speciosi.
 _Calyx_ duplex, exterior minutus, 3-phyllus, foliolis subulatis,
 sesquilinearibus, superior 5-phyllus, foliolis lineari-lanceolatis,
 acuminatis. _Petala_ 5, alba, retuse cuneata, venosa, basi uno latere,
 gibbosa, imbricata. _Stamina_, filamenta 10, atra, patula, quorum 5
 sterilia, cæteris duplo longiora. _Antheæ_ erectæ luteæ. _Stylus_
 teres, albus, 5-fidus, antheras superans.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. One of the petals.

 3. The chives and pointal.

 4. The chives spread open.

 5. The pointal and seed-bud.


The handsome plant here represented is a native of Saint Helena, and
is known by the name of Saint Helena Red-wood. Although introduced
into this country by Sir Joseph Banks in the year 1772, it is at
this time one of our very rarest and most desirable of hot-house
plants. Mr. Aiton enumerates it in the Hortus Kewensis, but marks no
time for its flowering; which therefore, we must suppose, but seldom
occurs. Our specimen was obligingly sent us by T. Evans, esq. from
his fine collection at Stepney in June 1803, and we last month saw it
beautifully in bloom at the honourable Charles Greville’s, Paddington.

In the colour of its flowers, and in other particulars, it appears
to vary. Plukenet calls them rubicund: ours were white: and in
the extensive herbarium of A. B. Lambert, esq. we have examined a
Saint Helena specimen with purple flowers, and less hoary but more
reticulated leaves, which wanted the minute ferruginous spotting so
abundant upon ours. It is propagated by cuttings in the usual way.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXC.

AMARYLLIS SPECTABILIS.

_Waved-leaved Amaryllis._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA hexapetaloidea irregularis. Filamenta fauci tubi
 inserta declinata inæqualia proportione vel directione.

 COROLLA 6-petal-like irregular. Chives inserted into the
 throat of the tube, bent downward, and unequal in proportion or
 direction.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 AMARYLLIS, spatha multiflora, tubo corollæ laciniis
 sesquilongiore, foliis lato-subulatis serrulatisque scapo longioribus.

 AMARYLLIS, with a many-flowered sheath, the tube of the
 corolla longer than its segments, the leaves broad-awl-shaped
 serrulated and longer than the stalk.

 DESCRIPTIO. _Radix_ bulbus mediocris tunicatus, et
 rotundatus, pallidusque. _Folia_ multifaria, lato-subulata,
 sesquipedalia, subcanaliculata, lævia, viridia, carinâ pallidâ,
 striisque parallelis ad lucem utrinque etiam pallidis; basin versus
 undulata, et aliquo attenuata; margine cartilagineo, serrulis
 minutissimis, expansis, albis, remotisque, aspero. _Scapus_ foliis
 duplo brevior, rubens, grossus, obtuse compressus, obsolete at
 irregulariter sulcato-striatulus, æquali crassitie. _Spatha_ diphylla,
 subquadriflora, valida, foliolis lineatis, apicibus obtusissimis, et
 minute emarginatis, intus albis, extus virentibus, tinctura rubedinis.
 _Flores_ sessiles, hexapetaloidei, tubulosi: tubus curvatus,
 angulatus, sulcatus, 5-uncialis et ultra, at gracilis, laciniis
 sesquilongior. _Petala_ late lanceolata, undulata, acuta, alba, vittâ
 purpureâ. _Filamenta_ alba, declinata, laciniis longe breviora.
 _Antheræ_ versatiles, arcuatæ, magnæ, demum atræ. _Germen_ sessile,
 compressum, viride. _Stylus_ albus, superne purpureus, antheras
 superans. _Stigma_ minutum. Infra germina, filamenta perpauca,
 staminiformia, sæpius adsunt.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A petal with its chive attached.

 2. The seed-bud and pointal.


The magnificent species of Amaryllis here represented is a native
of Sierra Leona; and was introduced from thence to this country,
by Professor Afzelius, several years ago; but has not yet been
described by any author whose works have reached us: although it
will unquestionably be inserted in the Flora of that part of Africa,
which the abovementioned learned Botanist is said to be preparing for
publication.

Although a very tender hot-house species, it flowers freely in the
tan-bed, in rich earth; but its elegant flowers, like those of
Amaryllis ornata, which it also resembles in foliage, are of very short
duration, and do not individually last in full beauty longer than a
day; unless they are taken out of the hot-house as soon as expanded,
and placed in some cool apartment; which indeed they well deserve. Our
figure was taken from plants in very great perfection, at J. Vere’s,
esq. Kensington Gore, in the month of July.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCI.

NYMPHÆA LOTUS.

_The Ægyptian Lotus._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA polypetala. Calyx 4-s. 5-phyllus. Bacca
 multilocularis, loculis polyspermis.

 BLOSSOM many-petaled. Empalement 4-or 5-leaved. Berry
 many-celled, with many seeds in each cell.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 NYMPHÆA, foliis cordatis dentatis glaberrimis lobis
 approximatis, calyce tetraphyllo. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 2. 1153._

 NYMPHÆA, with heart-shaped dentated very smooth leaves, with
 the lobes approximated, and a four-leaved empalement.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The seed-bud and pointal. 2. A chive. 3. A transverse section of the
seed-bud. 4. A capsule.


There can be no doubt, but that the plant here figured is the true
“Nymphæa Lotus” of Linnæus, and that it is the plant mentioned by Pliny
in Nat. Hist. lib. 13. cap. 17. and lib. 22. cap. 21. He there makes
mention of a plant which is found at the ebbing of the Nile, the fruit
of which resembles a poppy, and the seed of the size of millet: this
exactly answers to the “Nymphæa” before us, and does not at all apply
to the “Nelumbium,” the kernels of which are of the size of nuts or
thereabouts: he also remarks that the heads are dried by the natives,
and that the seed is beat and broken and made into bread.--Herodotus
also mentions that the Egyptians baked the seed into bread, and ate of
the roots, or rather tubercles, which resembled an apple and had an
agreeable flavour. Vide Euterpe 92--Melpomene 177.

Sonnini, in his Voyages, mentions the Lotus as being most abundant in
Egypt, and having _white flowers_; and I apprehend the red one to be
nothing but a variety of this.

When we know that the Egyptians worship the Nile, as the Indians do the
Ganges, we cannot wonder that a plant so beautiful, and so abundant in
that river, should also become an object of adoration; and we find it
continually though roughly engraved on their idols.--Indeed Pierius,
in his Hieroglyphics, mentions that the Egyptians worshipped the Lotus
as the type of the rising Sun.--It is always found on the statues of
Osiris, the Egyptian Apollo; it is also to be seen on the medals struck
in Egypt by the Romans, and especially during the reign of Adrian, who
held it in such veneration, that the medals which that Emperor caused
to be struck in Egypt, in honour of his favourite Antinoüs, uniformly
represent the latter with the Lotus on his head; whence the expression
“Antinoëan crown.”--Various animals in the Hieroglyphics appear to have
it, as the hawk, the lion, and the ram. It is to be seen on most of,
though not all, their deities; as Jupiter Ammon, Iris, Serapis, Orus,
Canopus, and most particularly on Harpocrates, who is often figured
sitting in the midst of it.--See Cuper’s Harpocrates, passim. The Lotus
symbolizes Plenty on many of the medals of Egypt and Sicily, probably
from being so great an article of food among the inhabitants, and from
its generally appearing at the reflux of the Nile, when the banks were
again open to the various uses they might be put to. Whether or not
the Lotus here figured, which I think I have sufficiently proved to be
the true Egyptian one, is the same which grows in the Ganges, and is
in such high veneration throughout the continent of India, China, and
Japan, can only be proved by a comparison of the two together: certain
however it is, that a plant of great similarity to it, if not quite the
same, is to be found on most of their idols also; and as the Ganges is
worshipped so may the Lotus be, with which it abounds. It expands in
the dusk of the evening, and closes about ten in the morning.

To the Right Honourable the Marquis of Blandford we are indebted for
the description of this very interesting plant, accompanied by a fine
living specimen from his splendid collection at White Knights near
Reading, Berks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCII.

IXIA COLUMNARIS, _var. angustifolia_.

_Columnar-chived Ixia. Narrowed-leaved Var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA sex-petala patens æqualis. Stigmata tria
 erectiusculo-patula.

 BLOSSOM 6-petals spreading equal. Summits three
 upright-spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 IXIA, filamentis basi cohærentibus; floribus subcapitatis,
 petalis purpureis basi saturatioribus, foliis lineari-ensiformibus.

 IXIA, with threads united at the base, flowers rather in
 heads, petals purple with darker bases, and linear-sword-shaped leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The two valves of the sheath.

 2. An entire flower, cut open in the tube only, which is extended
 nearly to the end of the threads.

 3. The chives cut open and magnified.

 4. The pointal complete, one of the summits detached and magnified.


The figure which accompanies this description represents the
narrowest-leaved variety of the columnar-chived Ixia hitherto
introduced into the British gardens.

Like the other varieties already figured in this work, it is a native
of the Cape of Good Hope; and like them must be treated as a Cape-bulb;
requiring only the protection of the green-house, and a mixture of loam
and peat; and no water during its quiescent state.

It flowers in June or July, and is a very brilliant variety. Our figure
was taken some time since at Messrs. Colvill’s, Nurserymen in the
King’s Road.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCIII.

FUMARIA FORMOSA.

_Beautiful Fumitory._


CLASS XVII. ORDER II.

_DIADELPHIA HEXANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Six Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX diphyllus. Corolla ringens. Filamenta duo membranacea,
 singula antheris tribus.

 EMPALEMENT two-leaved. Blossom gaping. Threads two,
 membranaceous, each with three tips.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 FUMARIA, scapis erectis, pedunculis cernuis subtrifloris
 bracteatis, corollis basi bilobis.

 FUMITORY, with erect stalks, cernuous nearly 3-flowered
 bracteated peduncles, and blossoms two-lobed at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The empalement.

2. A flower spread open, showing the insertion of the chives, with one
filament detached and magnified.

3. The seed-bud and pointal, the summit magnified.


The beautiful species of Fumaria which we have here represented is
a hardy plant; but of what country it is a native, or by whom first
introduced into the British gardens, we have yet to learn; neither have
we hitherto been able to ascertain it in any author. Our drawing was
made from very fine specimens communicated to us by William Anderson,
botanic gardener to James Vere, esq. Kensington Gore, in whose
collection it flowered copiously in the month of June last.

It is allied to the tuberous-rooted species; and perhaps nearer to
Fumaria nobilis than any other: succeeds very well in a mixture of
peat earth and loam, but prefers a sheltered and a somewhat shaded
situation; and makes a very fine appearance when in flower: it also
possesses unusual elegance in its foliage.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCIV.

MIMOSA LINIFOLIA.

_Flax-leaved Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONŒCIA._ Various Dispositions upon one Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 HERMAPH. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 5 sive
 plura. Pistillum 1. Legumen.

 Mascul. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 5-10, sive plura.

 HERMAPH. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft. Chives 5 or
 more. Pointal 1. A Pod.

 Male. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft. Chives 5-10, or more.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 MIMOSA, foliis sparsis suberectis angustissime linearibus.

 MIMOSA, with scattered erectish very narrow linear leaves.

 MIMOSA linifolia. _Ventenat Plantes Nouvelles_, tab. 2.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement and blossom magnified.

 2. The empalement detached and magnified.

 3. A chive magnified.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal magnified.


The Mimosa linifolia is a native of New South Wales, from whence it was
introduced to this country several years ago.

It has been considered in the gardens as a new species, and is known
under the name of pinifolia; but as it has been recently named
linifolia, by M. Ventenat in his Plantes Nouvelles, from plants which
we believe were sent to France from England, we have adopted the latter
name.

It is a very elegant greenhouse shrub; and arises with stiff erect
slender branches to the height of several feet, and does not flower
when young.

The Flax-leaved Mimosa is propagated chiefly by seeds, and either
not at all, or with great difficulty, from cuttings; and is usually
cultivated in light rich earth.

The individual here represented flowered very fine in the month of May
at Mrs. Wright’s, Bayswater; where our drawing was made.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCV.

ANTHERICUM PANICULATUM.

_Panicled Anthericum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX patens aut connivens. Stamina filamentis filiformibus
 hirsutis. Stigma 1. Semina angulata. _Juss. Gen. Pl._ 52.

 EMPALEMENT expanding or converging. Chives thread-shaped
 hairy. Summit 1. Seeds angulated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 ANTHERICUM, foliis canaliculato-ensiformibus gramineis, scapo
 paniculato diffuso, radice tuberosâ.

 ANTHERICUM, with channel-sword-shaped grassy leaves, diffuse
 panicled flower-stem, and a tuberous root.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A leaf.

 2. The chives and pointal.

 3. The pointal and seed-bud, the summit magnified.

 4. The seed-bud magnified.


The Anthericum paniculatum is a native of New Holland, and was lately
introduced from that country to this. In its tuberous root and woolly
filaments, it accords very well with the genus Anthericum, as defined
by Jussieu, in his celebrated Genera Plantarum; yet recedes from it
in wanting thick and fleshy leaves; which all the African species
of that genus have: hence it approximates, in habit at least, the
genus Phalangium of Jussieu, which Willdenow makes a division only of
Anthericum.

But there is nothing peculiarly remarkable in the present species
differing a little from its African congeners, because most of the
Australasian plants differ in some very striking particular or other
from their nearest affinities in all other parts of the world; and very
often constitute new genera.

It succeeds with the treatment of the Cape species, loves water, when
in active growth; continues in flower several of the summer months, and
is propagated by parting its roots in autumn, and by seeds, which it
sometimes perfects in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCVI.

CAMPANULA VERSICOLOR.

_Various-coloured Bell-flower._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA campanulata, fundo clauso valvis staminiferis. Stigma
 3-fidum. Capsula infera poris lateralibus dehiscens.

 COROLLA bell-shaped with the mouth closed by staminiferous
 valves. Summit 3-cleft. Capsule beneath gaping with lateral pores.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 CAMPANULA, foliis glabris cordato-ovatis undulatis, foliolis
 calycinis subulatis reflexis, corollis rotato-campanulatis.

 BELL-FLOWER, with smooth heart-ovate waved leaves, calyx
 leaflets awl-shaped reflexed, and wheel-bell-shaped blossoms.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A radical leaf.

 2. The empalement, chives and pointal.

 3. A chive.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal.


Without a doubt the present is not only a new species, but likewise
one of the most showy in the extensive genus Campanula; nearly all the
individuals of which have charms enough to entitle them to a place in
the flower-garden.

When our readers are told that it is an inhabitant of Greece, most of
them will readily perceive it is the very species announced in our last
number, as one that in beauty surpasses the _fairest of the fair_, and
was communicated to us, as well as the laciniata, by the Hon. W. H.
Irby, of Farnham Royal, Bucks.

It was first raised from seeds brought to this country from Greece, by
the late and much regretted Professor Sibthorp. There are two or three
varieties of it, which are all hardy, and flower in July; rising to the
height of about two feet, and making a very splendid appearance. They
succeed best in peat earth and loam; and are propagated by seeds and
by parting their roots: and are at present much sought after by all
collectors.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCVII.

STEWARTIA MARILANDICA.

_Maryland Stewartia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER XIII.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ One Brotherhood. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX quinquepartitus. Petala quinque. Stamina numerosa.
 Stylus 1. Stigma capitatum subquinquelobum. Capsula lignosa conica,
 calyci reflexo persistenti insidens, quinquelocularis quinquevalvis,
 valvis crassis ligneis medio septiferis; loculis 1-2-spermis. _Uster’s
 Juss. Gen. Pl. 324._

 EMPALEMENT five-parted. Petals five. Chives numerous. Style
 one. Summit headed somewhat five-lobed. Capsule woody conical, sitting
 on the reflexed persistent empalement, five-celled five-valved, with
 the valves thick woody and with partitions in the middle; with cells
 one-or two-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 STEWARTIA, foliis alternis ellipticis acuminatis obsolete et
 remote serrulatis, subtus villosis; floribus solitariis albis.

 STEWARTIA, with alternate elliptic acuminated obscurely and
 remotely serrulated leaves, hairy beneath; and solitary white flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The calyx, seed-bud and pointal.

 2. The chives spread open.


The Stewartia, which we have here represented, is known and cultivated
in His Majesty’s, and in various other collections of plants in the
vicinity of the metropolis, under the name of Marilandica; under
which title it likewise occurs in the third edition of Donn’s Hortus
Cantabrigiensis: but we do not find the name in any other book: neither
can we, for want of sufficient specimens, ascertain whether it is
specifically distinct from Stewartia virginica, or a variety only of
that species. From S. virginica, however, as figured by Cavanilles in
his Dissertationes, (tab. 159) it appears to differ, in having larger
and much less serrated leaves, and in their being villose beneath;
and likewise in its larger and entirely white petals. Cavanilles’
plant has one of its petals of a yellow-green colour. From Stewartia
Malachodendron it is known, at first sight, by its entire, not
lacerated petals; independent of the other _generical_ distinctions,
according to Jussieu and Cavanilles, which exist between them.

The Maryland Stewartia is, as its name imports, a native of Maryland in
America. It is a hardy shrub, and is propagated by layers; but does not
thrive unless in a moist situation, planted in a mixture of peat earth
and a little loam; and flowers in August and September.

The plant here figured was obligingly communicated to us, in bloom,
by the Marquis of Blandford, with whom it flowered in July last, we
believe for the first time in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCVIII.

WACHENDORFIA VILLOSA.

_Villose Wachendorfia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA sex-petala, inæqualis, infera. Capsula trilocularis,
 supera.

 BLOSSOM six-petalled, unequal, beneath. Capsule above
 three-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 WACHENDORFIA, foliis lineari-ensiformibus plicatis
 triplinerviis, cauleque villosis, floribus paniculatis.

 WACHENDORFIA, with the triple-nerved plicated
 linear-sword-shaped leaves, and stem villous; and panicled flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A floral leaf.

 2. The chives and pointal.

 3. The pointal and summit magnified.

 4. The seed-bud cut transversely.


The villous-leaved Wachendorfia is not enumerated in Professor
Willdenow’s new edition of Species Plantarum, and appears to be a
new species. It is very closely allied to W. hirsuta, but differs
sufficiently from that species in the shape of the leaves. It is
likewise extremely near akin to W. graminea, which, however, is
destitute of all pubescence, whilst ours is pubescent all over. Its
flowers are yellow, like those of hirsuta and paniculata; it rises to
the height of a foot and a half, prospers with the usual treatment of
Cape Bulbs; and was communicated to us in flower, in June last, by W.
Anderson, botanic gardener to J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, where it
flowers in great perfection, and increases pretty readily by the roots.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXCIX.

COMMELINA TUBEROSA.

_Tuberous-rooted Commelina._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA sex-petala. Nectaria quinque, cruciata, filamentis
 propriis inserta.

 BLOSSOM, six-petalled. Nectaries five, cross-shaped, inserted
 on their proper filaments.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 COMMELINA, corollis æqualibus, foliis sessilibus
 ovato-lanceolatis, subtus villosis et inde ciliatis, radice tuberosâ.

 Commelina tuberosa. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 251.--Dill. Elth. t. 79._

 COMMELINA, with equal flowers, sessile ovate-spear-shaped
 leaves, villose beneath and thence ciliated, and a tuberous root.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement, chives, and pointal.

 2. A petal.

 3. One of the nectaries.

 4. A chive magnified.

 5. The seed-bud and pointal, ummit magnified.


The herbaceous genus Commelina is a very singular one; and many of its
species are remarkable, not so much for the size, as for the structure
and brilliancy of their flowers; which, according to the words of the
generic character, ought to have six petals: but the present species
appears to have but three petals, the three outer being entirely of the
nature of a calyx; and effectually answering the purposes of one.

The tuberous-rooted Commelina is a native of Mexico, and in this
country requires the treatment of a hot-house herbaceous plant. It is
an old, but not common inhabitant of the British gardens; thrives well
in rich earth, and is propagated by dividing the tubers of its root,
when in a quiescent state; at which period much water is particularly
inimical to it.

The genus Commelina can only be distinguished from Tradescantia when
the flowers are open; but nevertheless differs very sufficiently, not
only in having double the number of stamina, but more especially in the
extraordinary cruciform nectaries.

Our drawing was made from very complete specimens communicated to us by
the Hon. W. H. Irby, of Farnham Royal, Bucks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCC.

EUCALYPTUS RESINIFERA.

_Resinous Eucalyptus._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ About Twenty Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX superus persistens truncatus, ante anthesin
 tectus _operculo_ integerrimo deciduo. Corolla nulla. Capsula
 quadrilocularis, apice dehiscens polysperma.

 EMPALEMENT above persistent truncated, before the flowering
 covered by an entire deciduous _lid_. Blossom none. Capsule
 four-celled, gaping at the point and many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 EUCALYPTUS, operculo conico tereti coriaceo calyce duplo
 longiori, umbellis lateralibus solitariis. _Smith in Linn. Tr. 3. p.
 284.--Willd. Sp. Pl. 2. 977._

 EUCALYPTUS, with a conical columnar leathery lid twice the
 length of the empalement, and lateral solitary umbels.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A bud in its infant state.

 2. The calyptra or lid, when in perfection.

 3. A chive magnified.

 4. The pointal and seed-bud.


This species of the genus Eucalyptus, a genus well characterized from
the singular operculum, which, instead of a corolla, defends the
infantile fructification from external injuries, is a native of New
South Wales; and was introduced, by seeds from that country, into
our gardens, along with some other Eucalypti, several years ago; but
has never flowered in Britain until the present summer, in Lady de
Clifford’s collection at Paddington, where our drawing was made in July
last.

It is a shrub of considerable size, and handsome growth and foliage;
and its younger shoots droop considerably, after the very elegant
manner so much admired in the weeping willow.

But the most singular trait in the plant is its tardy and protracted
mode of flowering. It has already shown flowers, which it will not
expand until next July: they are scarce half the size they will then
be, and have upon the tip of the large calyptra one of a far smaller
size, but similar in shape, and which will soon fall off, as will also
the large one, a little previous to the expansion of the stamina next
July.

It requires a great deal of root-room, and rich earth; is a very hardy
green-house plant, and has hitherto been propagated by imported seeds
only.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCI.

SERRATULA SPICATA.

_Spiked-flowered Saw-wort._


CLASS XIX. ORDER I.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA ÆQUALIS._ Tips united. Æqual Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX subcylindricus, imbricatus, muticus.

 EMPALEMENT nearly cylindrical, imbricated, without awns.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 SERRATULA, foliis linearibus, basi ciliatis, floribus
 sessilibus lateralibus spicatis, caule simplici. _Gmel. Syst. Nat. 2.
 1185.--Ait. Hort. Kew. 3. 138._

 SERRATULA, with linear leaves, ciliated at the base, sessile
 lateral spiked flowers, and a simple stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A radical leaf.

 2. The empalement spread open.

 3. A floret.

 4. The same, cut open.

 5. The seed-bud and pointal.


The Serratula spicata is a native of Carolina; but has been
cultivated in the gardens of this country ever since the year
1732; notwithstanding which it is by no means a frequent plant in
collections; which I should conceive arises from its being rather
difficult to increase.

Although a syngenesious plant, its root is of the tuberous kind;
which is a peculiarity almost unparalleled in that extensive class.
The flowering-stems shoot up late in spring, and are chiefly simple:
they rise to the height of one or two feet, furnished with long linear
leaves; the uppermost of which are gradually shortened, and they are
all more or less ciliated near the base; but in this respect they
are either liable to differ very considerably, or there are several
varieties (perhaps species) of the plant. There is likewise another
strikingly singular trait in the character of this Serratula: the
flowers commence opening at the top of the spike first, and continue
flowering downwards; instead of upwards, in the usual manner; which
is a circumstance I cannot recollect having seen in any other plants;
except Agave virginica and Allium descendens. Cultivators usually
suppose the name of the last-mentioned plant to apply to its roots
striking deep into the earth: but this we apprehend is an erroneous
supposition; for it is clearly allusive to its perverted mode of
flowering.

The spiked-flowered Saw-wort flowers in July, loves a light soil in
the open air; and is propagated, although slowly, by parting its roots
after the stems die down.

Gmelin queries, and with propriety, in his edition of _Systema
Naturæ_ above cited, whether S. spicata, and S. squarrosa, (another
North American species,) are not generically distinct from the other
Serratulæ.

Our drawing was made from plants in the collection of Lady de Clifford,
at Paddington.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCII.

CLEMATIS FLORIDA.

_Large-flowered Virgin’s Bower._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VI.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX nullus. Petala quatuor, rarius quinque. Semina caudata.

 EMPALEMENT none. Petals four, rarely five. Seeds tailed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 CLEMATIS, foliis decompositis, foliolis binatis ternatisque,
 petalis ovatis. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 2. 1287._

 CLEMATIS, with decompound leaves, leaflets in twos and
 threes, and egg-shaped petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A petal.

 2. The chives and pointals.

 3. The pointals.


The large-flowered Virgin’s Bower was introduced into the English
gardens, in the year 1776, from Japan; of which country it is a native;
and possesses by much the largest and most showy flowers in the whole
genus.

Although introduced so long since, it is not often met with. Our
drawing was made from very fine plants in the collection of Messrs.
Colvill, Nurserymen in the King’s Road, in the month of July last;
where they made an exceeding fine appearance.

Like many of the Japanese plants, it is found capable of resisting the
severity of our ordinary winters, without receiving much injury.

It thrives best when trained against a wall or other fence, planted in
rich soil; and is usually propagated by laying down the lowest branches
in a careful manner; which take root in due time, and may then be
safely separated from the mother plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCIII.

IPOMÆA GRANDIFLORA.

_Great-flowered Ipomæa._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX quinquefidus. Corolla infundibuliformis longa, limbo
 plicato quinquefido aut quinquedentato. Stigma capitatum. Capsula
 trilocularis polysperma. _Uster’s Juss. Gen. Pl. 149._

 EMPALEMENT five-cleft. Blossom funnel-shaped long, with
 a five-cleft or five-dentated border. Summit headed. Capsule
 three-celled, with many seeds in each cell.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 IPOMÆA, foliis cordatis acuminatis integerrimis, pedunculis
 subunifloris.

 IPOMÆA, with heart-shaped acuminated very entire leaves, and
 chiefly one-flowered peduncles.

 CONVOLVULUS _grandiflorus_, foliis cordatis ovatis
 obtusiusculis integerrimis, pedunculis subbifloris, calycibus
 coriaceis, caule petiolisque pubescentibus. _Linn. Supp. Pl.
 136.--Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 859._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The tube of the flower cut open, to show the structure and
 insertion of the chives.

 3. The pointal.

 4. A capsule nearly ripe, cut horizontally and lifted up to show the
 seeds.


This magnificent species of Ipomæa (the Convolvulus grandiflorus of
authors) was obligingly communicated to us in bloom in the month
of September, by A. B. Lambert, Esq. who thinks that its root will
only prove an annual one. If this indeed should eventually be the
case, it will cause it to recede in a material manner from the
Convolvulus grandiflorus as described in the Supplementum Plantarum,
and consequently in Willdenow’s Species Plantarum, which is there said
to be an arborescent species: from C. grandiflorus it should also
appear to differ, in its more pointed leaves and solitary peduncles;
and likewise in having a stigma agreeing altogether in structure
with the genus Ipomæa; which latter circumstance has occasioned us
to separate it from Convolvulus, and transfer it to Ipomæa; because
the conformation of the stigma in those extensive genera, often
(but we fear not always) affords the most satisfactory characters
for discrimination. All their species which we have examined, (and
they have been very numerous,) possibly might be united into one
genus, without committing much outrage against nature, or the natural
affinities of her vegetable kingdom.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCIV.

MORÆA MINIATA.

_Red-lead-coloured Moræa._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA hexapetala; petala tria interiora patentia;
 angustiora. Stigma trifidum.

 BLOSSOM six-petalled, the three interior ones spreading.
 Summit trifid.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 MORÆA, monadelphia, scapo tereti ramoso, foliis
 lineari-ensiformibus, caulinis spathaceis, petalis expansis
 sub-æqualibus ovalibus.

 MORÆA, monadelphous, with a round branched scape, leaves
 linear-sword-shaped, stem ones spathaceous, and petals expanded nearly
 equal and oval.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The outer sheath of the flower.

 2. The inner one.

 3. The seed-bud, chives and pointal, as they stand in the flower.

 4. The same magnified.

 5. The monadelphous chives spread open.

In vain have we turned over all the multifarious works of Jacquin,
and many other publications, in search of information concerning this
elegant plant: for our labour has not been rewarded with the least
success. As a species, therefore, we conceive it to be entirely new;
and in its generic characters, by no means destitute of botanical
importance. With Moræa we have placed it, because it perhaps best
agrees with that genus; yet cannot satisfactorily associate it with
Moræa tricuspis (Vieussieuxia De la Roche) and its affinities. In its
monadelphous stamina it approaches Sisyrinchium and Ferraria; and its
flat red flowers remind us of the anomalous Ixia Chinensis[D].

Our drawing was made from the Clapham collection, about the same time
that Iris Pavonia of our 364th plate was drawn. It requires the same
treatment as that splendid plant, and is a native of the same country:
but we fear it is not at present to be found alive in Britain.

[D] This plant, after having been arranged under the several genera,
Ixia, Moræa, and Ferraria, is now established as a new genus, by the
name of Pardanthus, in the second number of Annals of Botany, just
published.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCV.

PRIMULA DENTIFLORA.

_Toothed-flowered Primula._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX tubulosus quinquedentatus persistens. Corolla tubulosa
 quinqueloba, fauce perviâ. Capsula apice decemvalvis. _Uster’s Juss.
 Gen. Pl. 108._

 EMPALEMENT tubulose five-toothed persistent. Blossom tubulose
 five-lobed, with a pervious throat. Capsule at the apex ten-valved.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 PRIMULA, foliis cordatis crenato-lobatis prærugosis, corollis
 acute dentatis.

 PRIMULA, with heart-shaped crenatedly lobed very rough
 leaves, and sharply dentated flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. A blossom laid open, to show the insertion and structure of the
 chives.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal.

 4. The same magnified.


The species of the favourite genus Primula which we have here
represented, is a very elegant one; and greatly resembles P.
cortusifolia, which is figured on our 7th plate; but differs from it
in the extraordinary denticulations of the flowers; which we have been
assured are a constant and permanent character of the plant, and, if
so, affords an excellent and decisive mark of specific distinction,
and at the same time a trivial name of undeniable goodness. We have
not been able to ascertain with any kind of certainty its native
place of growth. It was communicated to us in bloom in the month of
September last, from the select collection of Lady de Clifford, at
Paddington, and is found to be a hardy plant, and to succeed with
the treatment of the other Primulæ; that is, as an alpine plant in
bog earth, and a small portion of loam; and protected in summer from
the mid-day and afternoon, but not the morning or evening sun. It is
propagated by parting the roots in autumn; and as a new and at the same
time beautiful Primula, it cannot fail to be acceptable to all our
subscribers.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCVI.

APONOGETON MONOSTACHYON.

_Simple-spiked Aponogeton._


CLASS XI. ORDER IV.

_DODECANDRIA TETRAGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. Four Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 AMENTUM e squamis compositum. Calyx nullus. Corolla nulla.
 Capsulæ 4, trispermæ.

 CATKIN composed of scales. Empalement none. Blossom none.
 Capsules 4, three-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 APONOGETON, spicâ simplici, foliis cordato-ovalibus. _Willd.
 Sp. Pl. 2. 927._

 APONOGETON, with a simple spike, and heart-oval shaped leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The chives detached.

 2. The pointals detached.

 3. The same magnified.


Four species only of this singular genus have hitherto been enumerated
by authors: viz. the present one from the East Indies; crispum, a
native of Ceylon; and angustifolium and distachyon, from the Cape of
Good Hope; the last of which is the most showy, and is figured on our
290th plate.

They are all water plants, and could no more thrive with their roots
and natant leaves out of that element than an Aloe or Stapelia could
prosper in it: they are therefore, along with other tropical aquatics,
cultivated in our hot-houses in troughs or cisterns of rich earth and
clear water; in which, consociated with the majestic Nymphææ, the
stately Thalia, and the more humble but not less interesting Menyanthes
indica, they produce a most fragrant and desirable appearance; that
perhaps is indebted for some of its charms to the fine contrast formed
by the terrestrial exotics which surround them.

In a collection of tropical plants, where a few cisterns of aquatics
are judiciously interspersed, the oppressive heat of the stove in
which they grow, is as it were delusively alleviated, “in the mind’s
eye,” by the simple, yet cooling sight of the little pools of water in
which they float. Few are the number of observers who contemplate them
without imbibing pleasure. This unquestionably arises from the strong
but agreeable contrast that is exhibited to the eye, by the happy
junction of the productions of the waters with those of the earth.
They are vegetables of widely different orders--productions of very
different natures--and inhabitants of elements diametrically opposite.

The simple-spiked Aponogeton produces roundish tubers in various parts
of its shoots; by the transplantation of which the plant is readily and
speedily propagated. Our drawing of it was made in July last, at J.
Vere’s, Esq. Kensington Gore, in whose collection it thrives very well.
We have not as yet seen it in any other.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCVII.

CALENDULA DENTATA.

_Toothed-leaved Marygold._


CLASS XIX. ORDER IV.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA._ Tips united. Necessary Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM nudum. Pappus nullus. Calyx polyphyllus,
 subæqualis. Semina disci utplurimum membranacea.

 RECEPTACLE naked. Pappus none. Empalement many-leaved, nearly
 equal. The seeds of the disk chiefly membranous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 CALENDULA, foliis alternis linearibus remote et acute
 dentatis; caule fruticoso decumbente.

 MARYGOLD, with alternate linear remotely and acutely dentated
 leaves, and a decumbent shrubby stem.

 Calendula dentata. _Donn’s Hort. Cantab. ed. 3. 163._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. A floret of the circumference.

 3. A floret of the disk.

 4. The same laid open and magnified, to show the situation of the
 chives.

 5. The pointal, with the summit detached and magnified.


Although this species of Calendula appears to have been introduced to
the British gardens so long since as the year 1790, from the Cape of
Good Hope, its native country; I do not find it enumerated either in
Mr. Aiton’s Hortus Kewensis or Gmelin’s edition of Systema Naturæ;
but it will in all probability be taken up in Willdenow’s Species
Plantarum, when he arrives at that part of it which is to include the
genus Calendula.

It is well known in the gardens by the applicable name of dentata,
but is not a common plant,--although, from the beauty and size of its
flowers, highly worthy of general cultivation: its branches are weak,
yet shrubby; and require support.

It is a green-house plant, and is propagated by cuttings in the usual
way. Our drawing was made from the Clapham collection in July last.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCVIII.

DAHLIA PINNATA.

_Pinnated Dahlia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX duplex. Corolla radiata, radiis lacinias calycis numero
 æquantibus: corollulæ pedicellatæ. Receptaculum paleaceum. Stigmata
 plumosa.

 EMPALEMENT double. Blossom radiated, with the rays equalling
 in number the segments of the empalement: the florets pedicelled.
 Receptacle chaffy. Tips plumose.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 DAHLIA, foliis oppositis, impari-pinnatis; pinnulis quinque,
 ovatis, crenato-dentatis. _Cav. Ic. 1. 57. tab. 80._

 _Dahlia_, with leaves opposite, pinnated with an odd one; the pinnules
 five, ovate, and notch-dentated.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A young flower with the peduncle and empalement.

 2. One of the radiating florets with its pedicel.

 3. A floret of the disk.

 4. The same spread open, to show the chives and pointal.

 5. The pointal detached, with the summit magnified.


The genus Dahlia was first established by the celebrated botanist
Cavanilles[E], (in honour of Andrew Dahl, a Swedish botanist, not
Dale an Englishman,) for three lofty, thick-rooted, perennial plants,
natives of the distant regions of Peru; but all of which we have had
the recent pleasure of seeing alive in the overflowing gardens of our
own happy country. They are extremely desirable and showy plants;
and none of them more so than the present one; which was raised from
seeds sent from Madrid last spring, by the Right Hon. Lady Holland,
and flowered last September and October, in the open ground, in her
Ladyship’s collection at Holland House, Kensington; where our drawing
was lately made. It has acquired the stately height of near eight
feet, with a circumference of three; and makes indeed a truly specious
appearance: but we do not expect it will ripen its seeds; the season
being too far advanced to encourage any reasonable hope of that nature.

The best mode of propagation should seem to be that of dividing its
somewhat tuberous roots, after the stems die down. As to treatment, we
see no valid reason why it, and both the other Dahliæ, (the coccinea
and rosea,) should not be treated as hardy herbaceous plants; placed
in rich earth and a warm situation. But as they are both rare and
valuable, it may at present be safer to consider them as green-house
plants, keeping them in very large pots and well watered, until their
stems show symptoms of dying down; when moisture must be administered
with a sparing hand.

There are considerable reasons for thinking that the pinnated Dahlia
will hereafter be raised with double flowers, because the figure in
Cavanilles’ Icones, above cited, represents them nearly semi-double;
and the doubling of radiated syngenesious plants is well known to
horticulturists to be a circumstance of pretty frequent occurrence.

[E] The public have now to regret the loss of this valuable botanist;
they are deprived of him: he died in May last at Madrid, aged 59.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCIX.

PROTEA SCOLYMUS.

_Smooth-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA quadrifida sive quadripetala. Antheræ lineares
 insertæ petalis infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Nux unisperma
 supera.

 BLOSSOM four-cleft or four-petaled. Tips linear, inserted on
 the petals below the apex. Empalement proper, none. Nut one-seeded
 above.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 PROTEA, foliis lanceolatis acutis capituloque terminali
 rotundo glabris.

 Protea Scolymus. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 522._--_Schrad. Sert. Hann. tab.
 20._--_Ait. Hort. Kew. 1. 127._

 PROTEA, with lance-shaped acute smooth leaves and a round
 terminal smooth head of flowers.

 LEUCODENDRON (_Scolymocephalum_) foliis lanceolatis, floribus
 subrotundis, caule fruticoso ramoso. _Linn. Sp. Pl. 2. 153._

 LEPIDOCARPODENDRON acaulon, ramis numerosis e terra
 excrescens, calyce floris immaturo extus e rubro et flavo variegato,
 intus flavo. _Boerh. Lugb. 2. p. 192. tab. 192._

 SCOLYMOCEPHALUS africanus, fruticis æthiopici coniferi
 Breynii foliis, capite majori squamato. _Raj. H. 3. 10._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A floret detached.

 2. A petal with its tip magnified.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal.


The Protea Scolymus grows spontaneously on the Tiger mountain at
the Cape of Good Hope; but has long been an inhabitant of European
conservatories, although a rare one. It was well known to several of
the old botanists, who appear to have differed much concerning the
generical appellations which they thought proper to bestow upon it; as
will appear on consulting the synonyms above. They made several genera
of Proteæ; but the botanists of later times have melted them all down
(we fear injudiciously) into one great genus: and Schrader has even
added Lambertia to Protea; and figured it in his Sertum Hannoverianum,
under the name of Protea nectarina; thereby alluding to the sweet juice
which abounds in the tubes of its flowers:--melliflua would have been
a still more expressive term. The smooth-leaved Protea requires the
same treatment as the rest of the genus, and is a very fine species,
producing its flowers in May and June. Our figure was taken at the
Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCX.

CYNANCHUM UNDATUM.

_Waved Cynanchum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CONTORTA. Nectarium cylindricum, quinquedentatum.

 CONTORTED. Honey-cup cylindrical, five-toothed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 CYNANCHUM, caule volubili, foliis cordatis oblongis obtusis
 cum acumine undatisque, umbellis axillaribus subproliferis.

 CYNANCHUM, with a twining stem, heart-shaped oblong blunt
 leaves, but with a sudden point, and waved, axillary somewhat
 proliferous umbels.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The blossom spread open.

 3. The outer scale of the honey-cup.

 4. The parts of fructification magnified.

 5. The inner scale of the honey-cup.

 6. The outside of the same.

 7. The seed-bud, shaft, summit and chives magnified.


The Waved Cynanchum is more remarkable for novelty than beauty; yet,
as an addition to our volubilous exotics, it possesses sufficient
elegance to render it worthy our attention: especially as climbing
plants have of late years become quite fashionable in most of the best
conservatories in the vicinity of London.

As a species, we conceive it to be perfectly nondescript, although it
should seem to possess several characters in common with Cynanchum
reticulatum, and C. undulatum of Willdenow, &c.; both of which are
known to us, but are described as having ovate, or oblong, not
heart-shaped leaves. C. reticulatum is also a native of the same
country, the East Indies; from whence seeds of the undatum were brought
in the year 1803 by Captain Thomas Hardwicke; and were raised in the
collection of the Marquis of Blandford, at White Knights, Berks, where
they flowered last July; when that nobleman obligingly communicated to
us the specimen from which the annexed figure was made.

The Waved Cynanchum is a hot-house plant, and requires nearly the same
treatment as Pergularia minor of our 184th plate.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXI.

PSORALEA SPICATA.

_Spiked-flowered Psoralea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX longitudine leguminis. Stamina diadelpha. Legumen
 monospermum subrostratum evalve.

 EMPALEMENT the length of the pod. Chives diadelphous. Pod
 one-seeded roundish and valveless.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 PSORALEA, foliolis obovatis recurvato-mucronatis subtus
 punctatis, spica terminali oblonga. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 1345._

 PSORALEA, with leaflets inversely egg-shaped, recurvedly
 mucronated and dotted beneath, and an oblong terminal spike of flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. A standard.

 3. One of the wings.

 4. The keel.

 5. The chives and pointal.

 6. The seed-bud and pointal.


The spiked-flowered Psoralea is a shrubby plant, and rises to the
height of a foot or two; producing its spikes of flowers in the months
of July and August, at the ends of its branches. It is a native of
the Cape of Good Hope, and in this country is found to succeed very
well in any green-house which has a flue to keep out the frost: and
is propagated by seeds, and also by cuttings if carefully managed.
Although not a very newly-introduced plant, it is certainly not a
frequent one in our gardens; indeed we do not recollect having ever
seen it in any collection, except the Nursery of Messrs. Whitley and
Brames, Old Brompton; where our drawing was made some time since; and
where it was considered and treated as a new species: which, however,
as appears by our synonym above given, is not the case.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXII.

CALENDULA VISCOSA.

_Viscous Marygold._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA._ Tips united. Necessary Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM nudum. Pappus nullus. Calyx polyphyllus,
 subæqualis. Semina disci utplurimum membranacea.

 RECEPTACLE naked. Pappus none. Empalement many-leaved, nearly
 equal. The seeds of the disk chiefly membranous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 CALENDULA, viscosa, foliis alternis lineari-cuneatis
 pinnatifido-dentatis, calycibus lucidis tomentoso-ciliatis, caule
 fruticoso debili.

 MARYGOLD, viscous, with alternate linear-cuneated
 pinnatifid-toothed leaves, shining tomentosely-ciliated empalements,
 and a weak shrubby stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. A floret of the ray.

 3. A floret of the disk.

 4. The same magnified.

 5. The corolla spread open and magnified.

 6. The seed-bud and pointal.


The figure annexed represents a new and very ornamental species of the
genus Calendula, which we lately discovered flowering beautifully,
amongst many other rare plants in the charming collection of exotics at
George Hibbert’s, esq. Clapham; where it was lately raised from seeds,
sent to him, we believe, from the Cape of Good Hope, of which country
we understand it is a native.

It is a shrubby species, and possesses much of the growth and habit of
Calendula dentata of our last number; and indeed in most things, except
its considerable viscosity and the colour of its flowers, exhibits a
very great similitude to that species; and will be found to succeed
with the same treatment and mode of propagation; but is in every
respect a much more desirable plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXIII.

GERANIUM HYMENODES.

_Ternate-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus pentacoccus.

 ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit beaked, five berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 GERANIUM, pedunculis multifloris, foliis obtusis
 inciso-dentatis, inferioribus ternatis, superioribus trilobis, caule
 erecto.

 GERANIUM, with many-flowered peduncles, obtuse gash-dentated
 leaves, the inferior ones ternate, the superior three-lobed, and an
 erect stem.

 GERANIUM (_trifolium_) caule herbaceo crasso ramoso, foliis
 radicalibus ternatis lobatis, caulinis oppositis simplicibus lobatis,
 petalis venosis, superioribus maculatis. _Cav. Diss. 4. p. 223. tab.
 97. fig. 3._

 ERODIUM hymenodes. _L’Herit. Geran. tab. 4._

 ERODIUM hymenodes. _Willd. Spec. Pl. 3. 635._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement and parts of fructification.

 2. The seed-bud, chives and pointal magnified.

 3. The seed-bud and pointals.

 4. The same magnified.


The ternate-leaved Geranium belongs to L’Heritier’s genus Erodium. It
is a native of mountainous, rocky situations, in the northern parts
of Africa; but has been cultivated in most of our best collections
of exotics several seasons; yet is not so frequently met with as it
deserves to be, on account of the unusual delicacy in the veining and
spotting of its flowers; which, from their size and number, make a
good appearance; and are produced in succession most part of the year.
The plant itself is of very humble, scarcely shrubby growth; yet rises
somewhat higher than the real tuberous species; to which, however, in
its contracted, thickened stems, it betrays a considerable affinity. It
is propagated readily by seeds, and likewise by cuttings; and stands
out in the open ground in mild winters uninjured, although it is
generally killed in severe ones; which renders it necessary to preserve
a supply of it in the conservatory.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXIV.

CRASSULA OBLIQUA.

_Oblique-leaved Crassula._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX pentaphyllus. Petala quinque. Squamæ quinque
 nectariferæ ad basin germinis.

 EMPALEMENT five-leaved. Petals five. Five honey-bearing pores
 at the base of the germ.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 CRASSULA, foliis ovatis obliquis integerrimis acutis
 distinctis, margine cartilagineis. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 1553._--_Ait.
 Hort. Kew. 1. 395._

 CRASSULA, with leaves egg-shaped oblique very entire acute
 distinct, and cartilaginous on the margin.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A flower with its empalement.

 2. The seed-bud and pointals.

 3. A detached pointal magnified.


Although the genus Crassula is a very extensive one, and possesses
many species which are remarkable either for beauty, singularity, or
fragrance; the one which we have here the satisfaction of illustrating
is, we think, by far the most ornamental; and is at the same time both
a stately and a singular plant. It is very succulent, and requires the
heat of the hot-house to make it bloom; but prospers best, like all
other succulent plants of the more tender kind, on the shelves of a dry
stove. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and is propagated with
facility by cuttings; prefers a light loamy soil, and a dry treatment;
and produces its large bunches of flowers late in the year; which are
very showy and of considerable duration, particularly if removed into
the green-house while in bloom, and at that time more liberally watered.

The oblique-leaved Crassula is an old inhabitant of our gardens,
but not a frequent one. Our drawing was made from a fine specimen
obligingly sent us by Thomas Evans, esq. from his fine collection at
Stepney, last August.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXV.

CANTUA CORONOPIFOLIA.

_Coronopus-leaved Cantua._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 3-5-fidus. Corolla infundibuliformis. Stigma trifidum.
 Capsula trilocularis, trivalvis, polysperma. Semina alata.

 EMPALEMENT from three-to five-cleft. Blossom funnel-shaped.
 Summit trifid. Capsule three-celled, three-valved, many-seeded. The
 seeds winged.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 CANTUA, floribus terminalibus, staminibus longitudine
 corollæ, foliis pinnatifidis.

 CANTUA, with terminal flowers, chives the length of the
 blossom, and feather-cleft leaves.

 CANTUA (coronopifolia). _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 879._

 POLEMONIUM (rubrum), foliis pinnatifidis linearibus, floribus
 racemosis pendulis. _Linn. Sp. Pl. ed. 3. p. 231._

 IPOMEA (rubra). _Linn. Syst. Veg. 171._

 IPOMOPSIS (elegans), minutim pubescens, foliis
 lineari-pinnatifidis. _Mich. Fl. Boreali-Americ. 1. 142._

 QUAMOCLIT pinnatum erectum, floribus in thyrsum digestis.
 _Dill. Hort. Elth. 321. tab. 241. fig. 312._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The blossom spread open, with the chives attached.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal, with the summit magnified.


Although the Coronopus-leaved Cantua was cultivated in Sherard’s
celebrated garden at Eltham, in the time of Dillenius, and is figured
by him, in the _Hort. Elth._ above cited, as a species of _Quamoclit_,
it has been an entire stranger to our modern gardens until very lately;
having no doubt long since perished in all the old collections.

Who the reintroducer of this very elegant plant is, we have yet
to learn: but the beautiful specimen here figured, was obligingly
communicated to us by the Marquis of Blandford, from White Knights,
Berks, about the end of November last.

It is a native of Carolina, and sufficiently hardy, we should think, to
resist the cold of our ordinary winters: its root is herbaceous, and
the plant admits of increase by parting the same, in spring or autumn.

Writers have differed in a very remarkable manner concerning the Genus
to which they should refer this plant; and Linnæus himself seems to
have been as undetermined as any of them concerning it; having at
different times given it as a _Polemonium_, and an _Ipomea_; as will
appear among our synonyms above. Michaux has called it _Ipomopsis_:
and another foreign writer, whose work we have not got, has given it
the appellation of _Noothea Pulchella_: but Willdenow has added it to
the genus _Cantua_, with which we conceive, in our humble opinion, it
sufficiently accords; and have therefore ventured to follow him in his
arrangement of it.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXVI.

SALVIA CHAMÆDRIFOLIA.

_Germander-leaved Sage._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA inæqualis. Filamenta tranverse pedicello affixa.

 BLOSSOM unequal. Chives affixed transversely to a pedicel.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 SALVIA, foliis ovalibus rugosis obsolete crenatis,
 verticillis terminalibus nudis quadrifloris, staminibus corolla
 brevioribus.

 SAGE, with oval rough obsoletely notched leaves, terminal
 naked four-flowered whorls, and chives shorter than the blossom.

 SALVIA Chamædrifolia. _Donn’s Hort. Cantab. p. 7._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The blossom with the chives attached.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal, with the summit magnified.


Our drawing was made from plants in the Hibbertian collection at
Clapham last autumn: but we have also seen this Sage in other places;
particularly at Cambridge; and know it to be the Salvia Chamædrifolia
of the Hortus Cantabrigiensis ed. 3.: but we do not find that name in
any other publication within our reach.

Mr. Donn marks it as a green-house perennial, and gives Spain as its
native country, but with a note of interrogation; and adds that it
flowers in July and August; and that it was introduced into our gardens
in the year 1798.

We believe that A. B. Lambert, Esq. was the first introducer of it,
and that gentleman thinks he received the seeds of it from Spain. The
first time of our seeing it was at J. Vere’s, Esq. in the autumn of
1802, where it was cultivated as a green-house shrub, and by the name
of S. citrina, a name that well expresses the charming odour of its
leaves when gently rubbed; which not a little resembles the pleasing,
well-known scent of Lemon Thyme.

It is propagated by cuttings in the usual way: its stem and branches
are very slender, but shrubby, and arise to the height of two or three
feet. The flowers are terminal, large, showy, and posses a beautiful
colour of the deepest blue.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXVII.

CROTOLARIA PULCHELLA.

_Ternate Larger-flowered Crotolaria._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 LEGUMEN turgidum, inflatum, pedicellatum. Filamenta connata
 cum fissura dorsali.

 POD turgid, inflated, pedicelled. Chives conjoined with a
 dorsal fissure.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 CROTOLARIA, frutescens, ramulis teretibus sericeis,
 foliis ternatis, foliolis lineari-lanceolatis acutis petiolis
 sesquilongioribus, subtus subpilosis.

 CROTOLARIA, shrubby, with cylindrical silky branches,
 and ternate leaves, with the leaflets linear-lanced acute-once,
 and-an-half the length of the foot-stalks, and somewhat hairy beneath.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The standard.

 3. One of the wings.

 4. The keel.

 5. The chives.

 6. The seed-bud and pointal.


The species of Crotolaria here represented, may perhaps be the “C.
(pilosa) foliis ternatis pilosis, foliolis mucronatis, floribus
terminalibus,” of Thunberg’s Prodromus: but from so insufficient a
character we have not ventured to determine it to be that plant; having
rather chosen to give it as a new species by the name of Pulchella;
which it well deserves.

It is a green-house plant, a native we understand of the Cape; and
arises with a straight, but little branched, woody stem, to the
height of about 3 feet: the branches are cylindrical and silky: the
leaves alternate and ternate, inclining to hoary, with pubescent
and channelled foot-stalks: the leaflets are lance-shaped, or
linear-lanced, once and an half, or sometimes twice the length of their
common foot-stalk, and furnished beneath with minute, close-pressed
hairs: the flowers are in a terminal racemus, large, yellow, and showy;
and are produced in the month of July.

Hitherto we have seen this plant only at the Nursery of Messrs.
Colvill, in the King’s Road, where our drawing was made. In favourable
seasons the plant will probably ripen its seeds in this country: and
at other times we have no doubt of its being capable of propagation by
cuttings in the usual way; although we do not know that this has yet
actually been done.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXVIII.

GENTIANA CATESBÆI.

_Catesby’s Gentian._


CLASS V. ORDER II.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA monopetala. Capsula bivalvis, unilocularis;
 receptaculis duobus longitudinalibus.

 BLOSSOM one-petalled. Capsule two-valved, one-celled; with
 two longitudinal receptacles.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 GENTIANA, foliis remotis oppositis ternatisque, corollis
 verticillatis ventricosis decemfidis, laciniis alternis inæqualiter
 bifidis lacerisque; calycibus minute ciliatis.

 GENTIAN, with remote opposite and ternate leaves, whorled
 ten-cleft bellied flowers, with their alternate segments unequally
 bifid and torn; and minutely ciliated empalements.

 GENTIANA (_Catesbæi_), corollis campanulatis ventricosis
 extus cæruleis, foliis lanceolatis remotis. _Walt. Fl. Carolin. 109._

 GENTIANA (_Saponaria_), corollis quinquefidis campanulatis
 ventricosis verticillatis, foliis ovato-lanceolatis trinerviis.
 _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 1338._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The blossom spread open.

 3. The pointal.


The beautiful species of Gentiana here represented, does not appear to
be noticed either in Willdenow’s edition of Species Plantarum, or the
Hortus Kewensis of Mr. Aiton; except by the former of these authors,
as being synonymous with G. Saponaria; from which as a species we
conceive it distinct: neither do we find it enumerated in Mr. Donn’s
Hortus Cantabrigiensis: but it is described by Walter in his Flora
Caroliniana, under the name of Catesbæi; and is known in several of the
principal gardens in the neighbourhood of London by that appellation;
which we have therefore thought it more eligible to adopt, than run any
risk of occasioning confusion by applying a new one.

The plant is perennial and herbaceous, a native of Carolina, and
is propagated by parting its roots in autumn, or early spring; but
requires a moist sheltered situation, and peat earth in the open air,
to make it flourish.

It rises with several stems to the height of a foot or upwards: the
leaves are opposite, or in threes, remote, lanceolate, stem-clasping,
and obscurely three-nerved, with scabrous margins, occasioned by
minute, upwardly-directed serrulations, which at the base of the leaf
are decurrent, and form four or six roughened lines on the stem: the
flowers are irregularly whorled; but the uppermost whorl is by much the
largest; each blossom is of a rich deep purple colour, ventricose, and
opens very little at the mouth, where it is divided into ten incurving
segments, every other of which is of a much paler colour than the rest,
broader, unequally bifid, and minutely lacerated: the empalement is
five-cleft, and its segments are linear-lance-shaped, with minutely
ciliated edges, after the manner of the edges of the leaves.

The living specimen from which our figures were made, was obligingly
communicated to us by the Hon. Mr. Irby, of Farnham Royal, Bucks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXIX.

GENISTA LUSITANICA.

_Portugal Genista._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX bilabiatus: 2-3 dentibus, binis superioribus
 brevissimis. Vexillum oblongum a pistillo staminibusque deorsum
 reflexum.

 EMPALEMENT two-lipped: with 2-3 teeth, the two uppermost very
 short. The standard oblong, and reflexed downwards from the chives and
 pointal.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 GENISTA, caule aphyllo, spinis decussatis. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 2.
 946._--_Ait. Hort. Kew. 2. 16._

 GENISTA, with a leafless stem, and decussated spines.

SCORPIUS secundus. _Clus. Hist. 1. p. 107._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The standard.

 3. One of the wings.

 4. The keel.

 5. The chives.

 6. The seed-bud and pointal.

 7. The same magnified.


The Portugal Genista is a very spiny, and almost leafless shrub,
of bushy growth; and although very well known to most of the old
Botanists, does not appear to have been cultivated in the British
gardens until the year 1771; when, according to Mr. Aiton’s Hortus
Kewensis, it was introduced by Mrs. Primmet. It is a native of Portugal
and Spain, but is sufficiently hardy to resist the cold of our ordinary
winters, if planted in a sheltered situation: yet is extremely liable
to be injured, or even destroyed, in those which take place with rigour
and severity: but as it very frequently produces good seeds, a supply
of it is not difficult to be kept up that way. The best time of sowing
them is spring, and they will require some slight protection from frost
while young.

The plant blooms freely from March till May, and when decorated
with its golden flowers, makes a very ornamental appearance in the
shrubbery; in which, although it has been so long in cultivation, we
cannot help regretting that it but seldom occurs: and we venture to
recommend it along with G. germanica (a closely allied species) to the
further attention of our cultivating friends.

Like many other shrubby leguminous plants, this Genista is averse to
being frequently transplanted; and never suffers the operation of
removal with impunity. Let that business therefore, when necessary, be
performed with all possible diligence and care. Our figure was taken
from plants in the Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXX.

GERANIUM FLORIBUNDUM.

_Tuberous Many-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus pentacoccus.

 ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit beaked, five berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 GERANIUM, tuberosum, pinnis foliorum oppositis
 bipartitis, laciniis ellipticis; scapis numerosis ramosis, petalis
 clavato-linearibus.

 GERANIUM, tuberous, with the pinnæ of the leaves opposite
 and two-parted, with their segments elliptical; numerous branched
 flower-stalks, and clavatedly-linear petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The seed-bud, chives, and pointal.

 3. The chives spread open.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal.

 5. The same magnified.


Geranium floribundum appears to be not only a nondescript species of
the Erodium family of this extensive tribe of plants; but at the same
time, a new and brilliant one. Few in number are the species which
equal it in beauty: and still more rare are those which can be allowed
to surpass it.

It is of extremely humble growth, and its roots are tuberous: from
the crowns of which it throws up, in the early part of summer, a
considerable number of flowering stems, each adorned with many flowers;
whence our specific name of floribundum.

It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and prospers with the same
treatment as the other dwarf Geraniums; and is propagated like them, by
carefully dividing the tubers of its roots.

Our figure was made from the Clapham collection, which it is well known
abounds more in this description of plants, than any other existing in
this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXI.

RENEALMIA CALCARATA.

_Upright-flowering Renealmia._


CLASS I. ORDER I.

_MONANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ One Chive. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX superus, monophyllus, in 2 sive 3 dentes irregulares
 rumpens. Corolla trifida. Nectarium oblongum. Anthera sessilis,
 nectario opposita. Bacca carnosa, trilocularis, profunde sulcata,
 et hirta. Semina plurima, alte truncata, arillo membranaceo niveo
 adpresso.

 EMPALEMENT above the fruit, one-leafed, breaking into 2 or
 3 irregular teeth. Blossom trifid. Nectary oblong. Chive sessile,
 opposite to the nectary. Berry fleshy, three-celled, profoundly
 sulcated, and hairy. Seeds many, deeply truncated, and furnished with
 a membranous, close-pressed, snow-coloured exterior skin.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 RENEALMIA foliis lanceolato-ensiformibus, racemo terminali
 erecto.

 RENEALMIA with lance-sword-shaped leaves, and an erect
 terminal racemus of flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The spathe.

 2. A blossom divested of the chive and honey-cup.

 3. The honey-cup.

 4. The sheath which crowns the seed-bud.

 5. The chive, pointal, and seed-bud.

 6. The same without its chive.

 7. A transverse section of the seed-bud magnified.


The new and elegant plant here figured was obligingly communicated to
us in September last by A. B. Lambert, Esq. who informs us that it had
grown vigorously to the height of about three feet in the bark-bed of
his hot-house, without showing flowers; but that, on being removed
from the tan and placed upon the flue, it soon produced those which
we have here delineated; whence it is probable that the check to its
growth, occasioned by the mere change of situation, was the cause of
its blooming, as in other collections it has not hitherto done it.
Mr. L. likewise informs us that its native country is Coromandel, and
that it is intended for publication by Dr. Roxburgh under the name of
Amomum calcaratum; and showed us a drawing of it, so named, copied
from one that was made in the East Indies from a native specimen, and
which represents the plant somewhat slenderer and less upright than the
individual we have here depicted.

Whoever will carefully investigate and compare our dissected figures
of this plant with those which are given with Renealmia nutans on
our 360th plate, will not only find that they precisely agree with
each other (as much as two distinct species of plants can do), but
that both of them very sufficiently correspond with the essential
characters of the genus Renealmia: yet both are, no doubt, specifically
distinct from Renealmia exaltata; wherefore we have not hesitated
to withdraw the present plant from the genus Amomum, from which,
independent of its widely different mode of flowering, we believe it
to be generically distinct. Neither are the above-mentioned all the
species of Renealmia we have a knowledge of; for even in the British
gardens (exclusive of those which have not yet been introduced to us
alive) we are already acquainted with at least three more. But how
far some of these plants are distinct from the four diandrous Globbæ
enumerated by Willdenow, and from Schrader’s Zerumbet speciosum, which
is a true Renealmia, we are not at present prepared to determine; yet
cannot help remarking that the last-mentioned plant should seem to
resemble the Globba Japonica of Thunberg;--that our present subject
may resemble G. Marantina;--that G. nutans greatly resembles Renealmia
nutans; and that at least one of the figures cited by Willdenow for the
former in Rumphius, is absolutely the same as R. nutans:--and, lastly,
that R. exaltata of Linn. Supp. Pl. possesses, in a very striking and
remarkable manner, the extraordinary habit of the remaining Globba
uviformis.

As to culture, these are all stove plants, and in this country require
the assistance of the tan-bed to make them flourish. Rich earth and
great plenty of pot-room are likewise requisite, and also a large
portion of water when they are vegetating briskly, but less when they
are almost at a stand,--which is sometimes the case,--although they
are never perfectly quiescent, as is common in the neighbouring genus
Amomum. They are propagated easily by parting their perennial roots.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXII.

CROTOLARIA JUNCEA.

_Rushy-stalked Crotolaria._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 LEGUMEN turgidum, inflatum, pedicellatum. Filamenta connata,
 cum fissura dorsali.

 POD turgid, inflated, pedicelled. Chives conjoined, with a
 dorsal fissure.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 CROTOLARIA, foliis simplicibus lanceolatis subsessilibus,
 leguminibus glabris, racemo terminali, caule sulcato. _Willd. Sp. Pl.
 3. 974._--_Curt. Bot. Mag. 490._

 CROTOLARIA, with simple lanceolate somewhat sessile leaves,
 smooth pods, a terminal bunch of flowers, and a furrowed stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The standard.

 3. One of the wings.

 4. The keel.

 5. The chives.

 6. The same spread open.

 7. The seed-bud and pointal.


The species of Crotolaria here represented is a native of Malabar
and the coast of Coromandel. It was obligingly sent us in bloom last
August by the Hon. Mr. Irby, of Farnham Royal, Bucks, and was raised
by him from East Indian seeds. Its root is annual; and the plant, in
consequence of it, admits of increase by seeds only, which should be
sown early on a hot-bed, with the most tender annuals, and the young
plants when large enough should be transplanted into separate pots of
rich earth; and after they have sufficiently recovered the effects of
removal, they should be taken into the hot-house, the assistance of
which is requisite to bring them to maturity. They rise with slender
and rather rushy stems, which are but slightly branched, to the height
of two or three feet, and make a fine appearance when in flower; but
they are, like many other tender leguminous plants, very subject to the
annoyance of insects, and more especially to that almost indestructible
pest of stoves, the red spider; the best mode of destroying which is
that of steaming the plants; that is, keeping them well watered, and in
a hot and humid air.

Some of our friends conceive this plant to differ from that which is
figured in the Botanical Magazine, No. 490. It is true, I found the
seed-bud quite silky; and if the full grown pod (which I never saw[F])
should likewise be so, it would certainly be worthy distinguishing
from that plant, which is said to have smooth, and therefore, in all
probability, naked pods.

[F] Neither have I yet seen the pod of the Crotolaria figured in the
last number, which, if it should prove cylindrical and not turgid,
would refer that plant to the genus Lebeckia, with which in habit it
very well accords.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXIII.

GERANIUM LUTEUM.

_Dwarf Yellow-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus pentacoccus.

 ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit beaked, five berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 GERANIUM, tuberosum, pinnis foliorum oppositis subovatis
 acutis inciso-bifidis seu trifidis integrisve, scapis simplicibus,
 petalis clavato-linearibus.

 GERANIUM, tuberous, with the pinnæ of the leaves somewhat
 ovate acute gash-bifid or trifid or entire, simple flower-stalks, and
 clavatedly-linear petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement cut open.

 2. The chives and pointal.

 3. The chives spread open.

 4. The seed-bud and pointal.


We have here the pleasure of adding another tuberous-rooted Geranium,
not enumerated by Willdenow, to the great variety of that description
already given in this work. As a species it appears sufficiently
distinct from any of them, although pretty closely allied to that which
is delineated in our last number; and also to G. fissifolium of our
378th plate. Its flowers are yellow marked with red, as is frequently
the case amongst the tuberous species of this extensive tribe of
plants, but of very rare occurrence in the other departments of it.

From the Clapham collection, incomparably rich in this description of
plants, our figure was derived, so long since as the summer of the year
1803.

Like its congeners, it is a native of the Cape; requires the treatment
of a green-house plant; and is increased, but very slowly, by carefully
dividing the tubers of its roots, when quiescent; taking especial care
that no moisture comes in contact with the wounded parts, until nature
has healed them by drying, and formed what the gardeners call a callus;
that is, a dry and hardened external skin.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXIV.

POLYGALA MICRANTHA.

_Small-flowered Milkwort._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA OCTANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Eight Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX 5-phyllus, foliolis duobus alæformibus, coloratis.
 Legumen obcordatum, biloculare.

 EMPALEMENT 5-leaved, with two of the leaves like wings,
 coloured. Pod inversely heart-shaped, two-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 POLYGALA, virgata, floribus imberbibus axillari-sessilibus
 solitariis subdistantibus folio brevioribus, foliis alternis
 subremotis internodio longioribus subulatisque.

 MILKWORT, twiggy, with beardless axillary-sessile solitary
 rather distant flowers which are shorter than the leaf, and alternate
 remotish awl-shaped leaves, longer than the space they are distant
 from each other.

 POLYGALA (micrantha) floribus imberbibus axillari-sessilibus,
 foliis linearibus mucronatis. _Thunb. Prod. 121._--_Willd. Sp. Pl. 3.
 892._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. The empalement.

 2. The same magnified.

 3. The keel magnified.

 4. One of the wings.

 5. The same magnified.

 6. The chives.

 7. The same magnified.

 8. The pointal.

 9. The same magnified.


There is an elegance and a grace in the habit and appearance of this
Polygala, which in a great measure compensates for its trifling
flowers. It forms a small, and but little branched, twiggy shrub; is a
native of the Cape of Good Hope; and belongs to the Heisteria division
of the genus. We do not know that it has ever been figured before; but,
notwithstanding the short character given by Thunberg, have little
doubt of its being the plant he intended for P. micrantha. The honour
of introducing it, and also some other shrubby Polygalæ, into this
country, is due to G. Hibbert, Esq., from whose choice collection at
Clapham our figure was taken.

Polygala micrantha continues flowering the greatest part of the year,
winter as well as summer, is a very hardy green-house plant, and is
propagated by cuttings in the usual way.

If we were to consider the flowers as resupinate, and perhaps they
really are so, what we have called the keel would become the standard,
and the small appendage which is a part of it below would answer as
its keel. The expanded flowers of this species, and also those of
P. stipulacea of our 363d plate, viewed in front, very remarkably
resemble in outline, and almost in size, the insects which I have
named Tineæ Bombyciformes; but the wings of the flower, which answer
to the pectinated horns of the insects, appear rather too large.
P. alopecuroides of our 371st plate possesses this extraordinary
resemblance still more completely; inasmuch as the ciliæ of its keel
correspond exactly to the fringes of the insects’ wings! A more perfect
similitude between objects in reality so remote and so different, I
have very rarely, or never, beheld.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXV.

MANGIFERA INDICA.

_Indian Mango Tree._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 FLORES pentapetali, inferi. Drupa reniformis. Corolla petalis
 lanceolatis. Nux lanuginosa.

 FLOWERS 5-petalled, beneath the fruit. Drupe kidney-shaped.
 Blossom with lanceolate petals. Nut woolly.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 MANGIFERA, foliis oblongo-lanceolatis, floribus submonandris,
 drupa maxima reniformi. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 1150._

 MANGO, with oblong-lanceolate leaves, somewhat monandrous
 flowers, and a large kidney-shaped drupe.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A front view of a detached flower magnified.

 2. A back view of the same.


The Mango tree very seldom produces its flowers, and, we believe, never
perfects its fruit, or, as Miller calls it, its plum, in Europe. In
India this tree acquires considerable size, with a rough bark, and
luxuriant foliage, and its fruit is held in great esteem. For the sake
of its fine leaves alone it is worthy cultivation in our hot-houses,
where, according to Miller, it prospers better out of, than in the tan;
yet I believe most of the horticulturists of the present day prefer the
bark-bed for their Mangoes, planting them in rich earth and large pots.
They are propagated by layers or cuttings, seldom by seeds, because
these will not keep long after they are mature, and therefore perish
before they reach this country and can be sown in it. The flowers are
extremely trifling, but they are curious in their conformation, and
remarkable in constantly having four out of their five chives abortive,
imperfect, and destitute of anthers; wherefore the plant is monandrous.
Our figure was taken at Whitley and Brames’s in the month of December
last.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXVI.

LIMODORUM TANKERVILLIÆ.

_Chinese Limodorum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 NECTARIUM monophyllum, concavum, pedicellatum, intra petalum
 infimum.

 NECTARY one-leafed, concave, on a pedicel, upon the lower
 petal.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &C.

 LIMODORUM, floribus racemosis imberbibus. _Ait. Hort. Kew. 3.
 302._--_Gmel. Syst. Nat. tom. 2. p. 60._

 LIMODORUM, with beardless racemose flowers.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A miniature figure of the plant.

 2. The spathe.

 3. The honey-cup.

 4. The parts of fructification as they stand in the plant. The upper
 part of the same with its lid elevated, and one chive detached and
 magnified.


No coloured representation of this magnificent plant within our
knowledge has yet been published, either in this country or on the
continent; but a large folio black print of it was given in Aiton’s
Hortus Kewensis, along with the above specific character, and with the
circumstance of its having been introduced into the British gardens
by the late Dr. Fothergill, in the year 1778, from China; of which
country it is a native. In England it requires the artificial heat
of the tan-bed to make it flower, which it does annually, with good
management, from the month of November to that of April. It requires
rich earth, and in dry weather frequent waterings; when in bloom makes
a very stately appearance, and is propagated pretty readily by parting
the tubers of the roots. Our drawing was made from fine plants in the
Hibbertian collection at Clapham last month.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXVII.

GOMPHOLOBIUM MACULATUM.

_Maculated Air-pod._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 CALYX campanulatus, simplex, alte 5-fidus. Corolla
 papilionacea. Stigma simplex, acutum. Legumen inflatum, sphericum,
 uniloculare, polyspermum.

 EMPALEMENT bell-shaped, simple, deeply five-cleft. Blossom
 butterfly-shaped. Summit simple, acute. Pod inflated, spherical,
 one-celled, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 GOMPHOLOBIUM, foliis ternatis linearibus nudis, senioribus
 declinatis, pedunculis basin versus bibracteatis, ramulis teretibus
 nudis.

 GOMPHOLOBIUM, with leaves in threes and naked, the older ones
 bent downwards, peduncles with 2 floral leaves near the base, and
 naked round branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A leaf.

 2. The empalement, peduncle, and floral leaves.

 3. A front view of the standard.

 4. A back view of the same.

 5. One of the wings.

 6. The keel.

 7. The chives and pointal.

 8. The seed-bud and pointal.


The plant here represented is quite a new species, and is said to be a
native of New Holland: it is a stiff little shrub, and prospers in the
green-house; and its yellow flowers, deeply blotched with brown on the
standard, make a good appearance.

In its habit, and in the generic characters, it comes nearer to
Gompholobium of Dr. Smith in Exotic Botany, tab. 5, than to any other
genus within our knowledge; yet the dissections here given, will be
found to swerve from the characters there advanced, in several perhaps
not unimportant particulars. The stamina appear more united. The
stigma appears slightly capitated, instead of acute; and the infant
pod somewhat too long. The bracteæ also differ in number as well as
structure.

Our drawing was made from living plants in the Hibbertian collection in
the year 1803, but the above description from the drawing only.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXVIII.

ELYCHRISUM STÆHELINA.

_Stæhelina-like Eternal-flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM nudum. Pappus pilosus, vel plumosus. Calyx
 imbricatus, radiatus, radio colorato.

 RECEPTACLE naked. Down hairy, or feathery. Empalement
 imbricated, rayed, with the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 ELYCHRISUM, fruticosum, erectum, foliis oblongo-lanceolatis
 basi attenuatis sericeis, pedunculis nudis unifloris terminalibus.
 _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 1910._

 ELYCHRISUM, shrubby, erect, with leaves oblong-lanced
 attenuated at the base and silky, and terminal naked one-flowered
 peduncles.

 XERANTHEMUM (Stæhelina) pedunculis terminalibus exertis nudis
 unifloris, foliis lanceolatis tomentosis. _Syst. Veg. 624._

 XERANTHEMUM foliis lanceolato-oblongis carinatis lanatis,
 caule erecto. _Thunb. Prod. 153._

 OBS. Caulis lignosus, tener, paniculato-ramosus, ut tota
 herba albo-tomentosus. Pedunculi longi terminales. _Willd._ l. c.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A flower cut open.

 2. An hermaphrodite floret with its down.

 3. The same without the down.

 4. The same spread open.

 5. The seed-bud and pointal, with the summit detached and magnified.


In the last volume of Willdenow’s Species Plantarum, containing the
great class Syngenesia, are found many valuable botanical alterations
and amendments, respecting the division and distribution of the
genera and species; and amongst others, we find the Linnæan genus
Xeranthemum, and even its species the annuum, with its supposed
variety the inapertum, divided and arranged exactly after the manner
proposed in our account of X. bracteatum (Plate 375), now Elychrisum
bracteatum: those few species only being now called Xeranthema which
have a squamous receptacle: viz. the annuum, and inapertum, of European
origin; and the orientale, a native of Armenia.

The plant here depicted was drawn from a living specimen in the
Clapham collection, last December, where at first it only threw up one
flower-stalk; but it has since become stronger, and shows a peduncle
from the end of almost every branch.

Although this species comes nearer Elychrisum in its generic characters
than to any other genus, Gnaphalium not excepted, yet still we cannot
help remarking, how much it recedes from the external appearance of
most of its congeners, in being quite destitute of radiating scales.

It is a green-house plant, a native of the Cape, and is propagated by
cuttings; but is not at present in any collection we are acquainted
with, except Mr. Hibbert’s.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXIX.

PROTEA INCURVA.

_Incurved-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 COROLLA quadrifida, sive quadripetala. Antheræ lineares,
 insertæ petalis infra apicem. Calyx proprius, nullus. Nux unisperma,
 supera.

 BLOSSOM four-cleft, or four-petaled. Tips linear, inserted on
 the petals below the apex. Empalement proper, none. Nut one-seeded,
 above.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 PROTEA, foliis filiformibus incurvis glabris, capitulis
 racemoso-spicatis tomentosis. _Thunb. Prod. 26.--Diss. no. 22. tab. 3.
 fig. 2.--Willd. Sp. Pl. 1. 516._

 PROTEA, with thread-shaped incurved smooth leaves, and heads
 of flowers racemose-spiked and woolly.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A flower.

 2. A petal magnified.

 3. The seed-bud and pointal, with the summit detached and magnified.


The Protea incurva is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, which is also
the native country of by far the greater part of this extensive genus.

In this country it is considered and treated as a hardy green-house
plant; and requires, like most of its congeners, a fresh loamy soil,
and an airy situation in the winter. A very abundant supply of fresh
air, indeed, is of essential consequence in the cultivation of most of
the Cape plants; they benefit by it in the day time in most sorts of
weather, even if rainy, provided the plants are not wetted by the rain,
and the temperature of the atmosphere is not lower than forty degrees
of Fahrenheit’s thermometer.

In many collections, we are of opinion, too little air is usually
admitted in the green-house; especially in winter, and early spring:
and we are also of opinion, that where we have seen the most given,
the plants are the most healthy and robust. The fine collection at Mr.
Hibbert’s is a powerful argument in favour of this theory.--In few
places is air so freely given; in none are plants in finer health:
therefore much air is essentially necessary; for plants, like animals,
are now known to absorb from the atmosphere, through a process
analogous to respiration, its oxygenous particles; thence deriving
strength and vigour, and without which no animal or vegetable can at
all maintain either health or life.

Our figure was made from the Clapham Collection last June. The plant is
shrubby, erect, and is propagated by cuttings in the usual way.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXX.

RICINUS ARMATUS.

_Prickly-capsuled Ricinus._


CLASS XXI. ORDER VIII.

_MONOECIA MONADELPHIA._ One House. One Brotherhood.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 MAS. Calyx 5-partitus. Corolla 0. Stamina numerosa.

 FEMINA. Calyx 3-partitus. Corolla 0. Pistilli 3, bifidi.
 Capsula 3-locularis. Semen 1.

 MALE. Empalement 5-parted. Blossom none Chives numerous.

 FEMALE. Empalement 3-parted. Blossom none. Pointals 3,
 2-cleft. Capsule 3-celled. Seed one.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

 RICINUS, foliis peltatis alte palmato-novem-fidis serratis,
 petiolis glandulosis, capsulis undique spinis herbaceis.

 RICINUS, with leaves peltated deeply palmate-9-cleft and
 serrated, with glandulose petioles, and capsules every where furnished
 with herbaceous spines.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A male flower.

 2. The male empalement.

 3. The pointals.

 4. A capsule.

 5. A seed.


The species of Ricinus here depicted, was raised in Lady Holland’s
garden at Kensington last summer, from seeds sent by her ladyship from
Malta, where the plant has been cultivated for medicinal purposes about
four years; and where it is considered as a new sort. And such indeed
it appears to us: for as a species, although it comes extremely near to
R. communis, R. inermis, and perhaps R. medicus of Forskall, it appears
to be sufficiently distinct; differing from the former and latter, in
its deeper cloven, and more numerously lobed, and glandular petioled
leaves; and from R. inermis, in having its capsules thickly beset
with considerable, but herbaceous spines; whence our specific name of
armatus, in contradistinction also to R. inermis, which has smooth
capsules. The plant from which our drawing was taken was eight feet
high and very much branched; and its ample yet elegant foliage, and red
stalks and veins, communicated that kind of appearance to it which is
often attributed to Asiatic plants--stately, and magnificent. Its root
is biennial; it requires the protection of the green-house, and can be
increased very readily by seeds, which should be raised on a hot-bed in
spring, and afterwards transplanted into very large pots. There were
two glands at the top of the petioles.

The valuable drug called castor oil is extracted from the seeds of this
and other species of Ricinus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXI.

CÆSULIA AXILLARIS.

_Axillary-flowered Cæsulia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER I.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA ÆQUALIS._ Tips united. Æqual Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, paleis semina involventibus. Pappus
 nullus. Calyx triphyllus.

 RECEPTACLE chaffy, with the chaff enveloping the seeds. Down
 none. Empalement three-leaved.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 CÆSULIA, foliis lanceolatis basi attenuatis serratis
 alternis. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. 1796._

 CÆSULIA, with alternate lanceolate serrated leaves attenuated
 at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A floret with its seed enveloped by the chaff.

 2. The same divested of its seed and chaff.

 3. The same spread open and magnified.

 4. The seed-bud, pointal, and chaff.

 5. and 6. The same in different states.


Novelty, oddity, and a very unusual appearance in every part, for a
syngenesious plant, must in the present subject compensate for its
trifling flowers.

Few of our cultivating friends, except those who are the most
botanical, will be inclined to add this Cæsulia to their collections;
although a very rare, and, in many respects, an interesting species.

It was first described and figured by Dr. Roxburgh, as a new genus,
and by the name it here bears, in his sumptuous work on the plants of
the coast of Coromandel, of which country it is a native; and it has
since been taken up by Professor Willdenow, in his edition of Species
Plantarum, and has had a new species (the _radicans_), from Guinea,
added to it by that botanist.

The axillary-flowered Cæsulia is quite new in the gardens, and is said
to have a perennial root, by the parting of which we suppose it may be
increased; and must be considered as a hot-house plant in this country.

Our figure was taken from a living specimen, obligingly communicated to
us last summer by the Marquis of Blandford, from White Knights, Berks;
who, we believe, first raised it in this country, from East Indian
seeds.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXII.

STRELITZIA REGINÆ.

_The Queen’s Strelitzia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

 SPATHA universalis, partialesque. Calyx 0. Corolla 3-petala.
 Nectarium 3-phyllum, genitalia involvens. Capsula 3-locularis; loculis
 polyspermis.

 SPATHE a common one, and partial spathes. Empalement none.
 Blossom three-petalled. Nectary three-leaved, involving the organs of
 fructification. Capsule three-celled; with many seeds.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER, &c.

 STRELITZIA, foliis ellipticis basi undulatis
 parallelo-costatis.

 STRELITZIA, with leaves elliptic undulated at the base, and
 ribbed in a parallel manner.

 STRELITZIA Reginæ. _Willd. Sp. Pl. I. 1190.--Curt. Bot. Mag.
 tab. 119.--Ait. Hort. Kew. 1. 285. tab. 2._


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

 1. A miniature figure of the plant.

 2. The two-petal-like nectary.

 3. The upper short petal of the nectary.

 4. The seed-bud, chives and pointal.


At the request of several of our subscribers, who compliment us in
saying this work contains nearly all the more showy plants now in
cultivation; and who moreover are desirous that it should not long
want any of them: we here beg leave to present them with that queen of
hot-house plants, the superb Strelitzia: although strictly against our
rules and plan; a coloured quarto print of it having already been given
in the Botanical Magazine.

Of this majestic genus, first established in the Hortus Kewensis, there
are now living in the British gardens, not fewer than four species, and
several varieties; all natives, we believe, of the Cape of Good Hope,
and all hot-house plants: viz. 1st, Strelitzia alba (Hortulanorum),
which, towering far above the rest, and quite erect, attains the kingly
height of twenty feet or upwards: it ought to have been called S.
Regis;--2nd, S. Reginæ, here delineated, of which there are three or
four varieties, differing only in the undulation of the leaves, and
in their length, which (including the petiole) is usually from three
to five feet;--3d, A nondescript narrow-leaved species, with very
long petioles; this should be called S. Principis;--and 4th, another
nondescript, but smaller sort, whose leaves are mere petioles, and
scarce ever expand in the slightest manner into laminæ: this should be
called S. juncea: it is very rare, and we believe at present only in
the royal collection at Kew. All the Strelitziæ are propagated, though
slowly, by carefully dividing their perennial roots, which are usually
planted either in very large pots, or small beds annexed to the tan-bed
in hot-houses. Our figure was made from a plant at Messrs. Colvill’s,
in the King’s Road, last autumn, but the plant flowers freely at
various seasons.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. VI.


Plate
361  Sanseviera carnea                        Flesh-coloured Sanseviera                      G. H. Herb   March
362  Crocus biflorus                          Yellow-bottomed white Crocus                   Hard. Bulb   February
363  Polygala stipulacea                      Stipuled Milkwort                              G. H. Shrub  March
364  Iris pavonia                             Peacock Iris                                   G. H. Bulb   April
365  Scilla siberica                          Siberian Squill                                Hard. Bulb   February
366  Geranium barbatum. _Var. undulatum._     Bearded-leaved Geranium _Var. waved-petaled._  G. H. Herb   Septem.
367  Anagallis grandiflora                    Great-flowered Pimpernel                       G. H. Ann.   April
368  Melanthium Massoniæfolium                Massonia-leaved Melanthium                     G. H. Bulb   March
369  Eucomis purpureocaulis                   Purple-stalked Eucomis                         G. H. Bulb   March
370  Polygala teretifolia                     Cylindric-leaved Milkwort                      G. H. Shrub  April
371  Polygala alopecuroides                   Fox-tail Milkwort                              G. H. Shrub  April
372  Mimosa purpurea                          Soldier-bush Mimosa                            H. H. Shrub  April
373  Pæonia suffruticosa                      Shrubby Pæony                                  G. H. Shrub  April
374  Xeranthemum  proliferum                  Proliferous Eternal-flower                     G. H. Shrub  May
375  Xeranthemum bracteatum                   Waved-leaved Eternal-flower                    Hard. Ann.   Septem.
376  Neottia minor                            The Lesser Neottia                             H. H. Herb   March
377  Allium Chamæ-Moly                        The Dwarf Moly                                 G. H. Bulb   February
378  Geranium fissifolium                     Cloven-leaved Geranium                         G. H. Herb   Septem.
379  Rhododendron ponticum. _Var. deciduum._  Deciduous purple Rhododendron                  Hard. Shrub  May
380  Achyranthes porrigens                    Divaricating Achyranthes                       H. H. Shrub  May
381  Sarracenia flava                         Yellow side-saddle Flower                      G. H. Herb   June
382  Liparia villosa                          Concave-leaved Liparia                         G. H. Shrub  May
383  Pittosporum undulatum                    Waved-leaved Pittosporum                       G. H. Shrub  May
384  Xeranthemum variegatum                   Variegated Eternal-flower                      G. H. Shrub  May
385  Campanula laciniata                      Ragwort-leaved Bell-flower                     Hard. Herb   July
386  Anthericum pugioniforme                  Dagger-leaved Anthericum                       Hard. Bulb   Septem.
387  Xeranthemum rigidum                      Rigid-leaved Eternal-flower                    G. H. Shrub  May
388  Mesembryanthemum inclaudens              Unclosing-flowered Fig-marygold                G. H. Shrub  July
389  Dombeya Erythroxylon                     Saint Helena Red-wood                          H. H. Shrub  June
390  Amaryllis spectabilis                    Waved-leaved Amaryllis                         H. H. Bulb   July
391  Nymphæa Lotus                            The Ægyptian Lotus                             H. H. Herb   July
392  Ixia columnaris. _Var angustifolia._     Narrow-leaved Columnar-chived Ixia             G. H. Bulb   June
393  Fumaria Formosa                          Beautiful Fumitory                             Hard. Herb   June
394  Mimosa Linifolia                         Flax-leaved Mimosa                             G. H. Shrub  May
395  Anthericum paniculatum                   Panicled Anthericum                            G. H. Herb   July
396  Campanula versicolor                     Various-coloured Bell-flower                   Hard. Herb   July
397  Stewartia marilandica                    Maryland Stewartia                             Hard. Shrub  August
398  Wachendorfia villosa                     Villous Wachendorfia                           G. H. Herb   June
399  Commelina tuberosa                       Tuberous-rooted Commelina                      H. H. Herb   Septem.
400  Eucalyptus resinifera                    Resinous Eucalyptus                            G. H. Shrub  July
401  Serratula spicata                        Spiked-flowered Saw-wort                       Hard. Herb   July
402  Clematis florida                         Large-flowered Virgin’s Bower                  Hard. Shrub  July
403  Ipomea grandiflora                       Great-flowered Ipomea                          H. H. Ann.   Septem.
404  Morea miniata                            Red-lead-coloured Morea                        G. H. Bulb   April
405  Primula dentiflora                       Toothed-flowered Primrose                      Hard. Herb   Septem.
406  Aponogeton monostachyon                  Simple-spiked Aponogeton                       H. H. Herb   July
407  Calendula dentata                        Toothed-leaved Marygold                        G. H. Shrub  July
408  Dahlia pinnata                           Pinnated-leaved Dahlia                         G. H. Herb   Septem.
409  Protea Scolymus                          Smooth-leaved Protea                           G. H. Shrub  May
410  Cynanchum undatum                        Waved Cynanchum                                H. H. Shrub  July
411  Psoralea spicata                         Spiked-flowered Psoralea                       G. H. Shrub  July
412  Calendula viscosa                        Viscous Marygold                               G. H. Shrub  October
413  Geranium hymenodes                       Ternate-leaved Geranium                        G. H. Herb   May
414  Crassula obliqua                         Oblique-leaved Crassula                        H. H. Shrub  October
415  Cantua Coronopifolia                     Coronopus-leaved Cantua                        H. H. Herb   Novem.
416  Salvia Chamædrifolia                     Germander-leaved Sage                          G. H. Shrub  July
417  Crotolaria pulchella                     Ternate large-flowered Crotolaria              G. H. Shrub  July
418  Gentiana Catesbæi                        Catesby’s Gentian                              Hard. Herb   October
419  Genista lusitanica                       Portugal Genista                               Hard. Shrub  March
420  Geranium floribundum                     Tuberous many-flowered Geranium                G. H. Herb   July
421  Renealmia calcarata                      Upright-flowering Renealmia                    H. H. Herb   Septem.
422  Crotolaria juncea                        Rushy-stalked Crotolaria                       H. H. Ann.   August
423  Geranium luteum                          Dwarf yellow-flowered Geranium                 G. H. Herb   Septem.
424  Polygala micrantha                       Small-flowered Milkwort                        G. H. Shrub  April
425  Mangifera indica                         Indian Mango-tree                              H. H. Shrub  Decem.
426  Limodorum Tankervilliæ                   Chinese Limodorum                              H. H. Herb   Decem.
427  Gompholobium maculatum                   Maculated Air-Pod                              G. H. Shrub   July
428  Elychrisum Stæhelina                     Stæhelina-like Eternal-flower                  G. H. Shrub  Decem.
429  Cæsulea axillaris                        Axillary-flowered Cæsulea                      H. H. Herb   August
430  Ricinus armatus                          Prickly-capsuled Ricinus                       G. H. Bien.  October
431  Protea incurva                           Incurved-leaved Protea                         G. H. Shrub  June
432  Strelitzia Reginæ                        The Queen’s Strelitzia                         H. H. Herb   August




ERRATA ET CORRIGENDA IN VOL. VI.


  Plate
  361, line 20, for brevioribus, read _breviora_.
  --------  21, for antheris, read _antheras_.
  362, ---- 7, after longissimo add _partim_, and after long add _and partly_.
  --------  11, after cochleariformibus, add _circumscissis_.
  --------  16, for antheris, read _antheras_.
  --------  after line 21, add 4. _The Seed-bud and Pointal_.
  365, ---- 21, for antheris, read _antheras_.
  375, ---- 19, for the Pointal, &c. read _one of the Scales of the Empalement_.
  --------  10, for prinnate, read _pinnate_.
  378, ---- 3, from the bottom, for Erodium, read _Pelangonium_.
  383, After the Specific Character, add _P. undulatum, Vent. Pl. nouv. 76._
  389, line 25, for retuse, read _undulatim retusa_.
  390, ---- 20, after tubulosi, add _ante anthesin inflati_.
  395, ---- 18, after is, read _a new species_.
  396, ---- 24, for and, read _it_.
  397, ---- 13, strike out the letter _l_.
  399, ---- 4, from the bottom, for double, read _but half_.
  404, ---- 9, for Monadelphia, read _Monadelpha_.
  --------  22, for east, read _least_.
  405, ---- 22, for affords, read _afford_.
  410, ---- 11, after waved, add _and_.
  --------  27, for known, read _unknown_.
  415, ---- 22, for 4 read 3.
  417, ---- 10, strike out the _two hyphens_ and the _comma_ between them.
  418, ---- 7, from bottom, for purple read _blue_.
  420, ---- 19, for Erodium, read _Pelangonium_.
  424, ---- 27, for compensates, read _compensate_.
  426, ---- 16, after plant, add _5_.



